A plant species of the genus citrus, family rutaceae that provides the familiar orange fruit which is also a source of orange oil.
Transcortin, also corticosteroid-binding globulin or CBG, is officially called serpin peptidase inhibitor, clade A (alpha-1 antiproteinase, antitrypsin), member 6.
It is an alpha-globulin.
Transcortin is produced by the liver and is regulated by estrogens.
Therefore, plasma transcortin levels increase during pregnancy, and are decreased in cirrhosis.
Myristoleic acid, or 9-tetradecenoic acid, is an omega-5 fatty acid.
It is biosynthesized from myristic acid by the enzyme delta-9 desaturase, but it is uncommon in nature.
One of the major sources of this fatty acid is the seed oil from plants of the genus Myristicaceae, comprising up to 30 per cent of the oil in some species.
The cetyl ester of myristoleic acid has biological properties as an anti-inflammatory, a pain reliever, and an immune system modulator.
The PMP22 gene (peripheral myelin protein 22) is located on chromosome 17p12.
This gene encodes an integral membrane protein that is a major component of myelin in the peripheral nervous system.
Studies suggest two alternately used promoters drive tissue-specific expression.
Various mutations of this gene are causes of Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease Type IA, Dejerine-Sottas syndrome, and hereditary neuropathy with liability to pressure palsies.
Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants.
CD36 (Cluster of Differentiation 36) is an integral membrane protein found on the surface of many cell types in vertebrate animals and is also known as FAT, SCARB3, GP88, glycoprotein IV (gpIV) and glycoprotein IIIb (gpIIIb).
CD36 is a member of the class B scavenger receptor family of cell surface proteins.
CD36 binds many ligands including collagen, thrombospondin, erythrocytes parasitized with Plasmodium falciparum, oxidized low density lipoprotein, native lipoproteins, oxidized phospholipids, and long-chain fatty acids.
There are multiple techniques for temporary pacing, including transvenous, transcutaneous, epicardial, and transesophageal.
Transvenous pacing uses central venous access; transcutaneous uses pads attached to the skin; epicardial, which is typically placed during cardiac surgery, applies leads to the epicardium; and transesophageal involves placement of an electrode in the esophagus or gastric fundus.
Allergy to whole eggs is one of the most common causes of food allergy in infants and young children.
Detection of IgE antibodies to egg white in infancy may predict the development of disease later in life.
The main allergens in whole eggs are found in the egg white, but egg yolk also contains specific IgE-binding allergens.
Many foods contain egg including salad dressings, breads, breaded foods, marshmallows, prepared soups and beverages, frosting, ice cream and sherbets, sausages, prepared meat, and various sauces.
Certain vaccines grown on chick embryos may cause severe allergic reactions in sensitive patients.
The chemical compound silicon dioxide, also known as silica (from the Latin silex), is an oxide of silicon with a chemical formula of SiO2 and has been known for its hardness since antiquity.
Silica is most commonly found in nature as sand or quartz, as well as in the cell walls of diatoms.
Silica is the most abundant mineral in the Earth's crust
Reticulocyte corpuscular hemoglobin concentration mean (CHCMr) is a measure of the average hemoglobin concentration contained in reticulocytes (immature red blood cells).
Along with other reticulocyte indices, such as reticulocyte hemoglobin content (CHr) and mean corpuscular volume (MCVr), CHCMr can be used to monitor treatment efficacy for various types of anemia, including sickle cell anemia treated with hydroxyurea, iron-deficiency anemia treated with IV iron, and various types of anemia treated with erythropoietin.
Flupentixol (INN), also known as flupenthixol (former BAN), marketed under brand names such as Depixol and Fluanxol, is a typical antipsychotic drug of the thioxanthene class.
In addition to single drug preparations, it is also available as Anxiset, Deanxit, Mixit, a combination product containing both melitracen and flupentixol.
Flupentixol's main use is as a long-acting injection given once in every two or three weeks to individuals with schizophrenia who have poor compliance with medication and suffer frequent relapses of illness, though it is also commonly given as a tablet.
The side effects of flupentixol are similar to most other typical antipsychotics, namely extrapyramidal symptoms of akathisia, muscle tremors, and rigidity and antihistamine effects like sedation and somnolence.
Caesium (also spelled cesium) is a chemical element in the periodic table that has the symbol Cs and atomic number 55.
It is a soft silvery-gold alkali metal with a melting point of 28 °C which makes it one of the metals that are liquid at or near room temperature.
This element is most notably used in atomic clocks.
Although the element is only mildly toxic, it is a hazardous material as a metal and its radioisotopes present a high health risk in case of radiation leaks.
Caesium compounds are rarely encountered by most people, but most are mildly toxic because of chemical similarity of caesium to potassium.
Exposure to large amounts of caesium compounds can cause hyperirritability and spasms,
Grass allergen mix 4 (gx4, GP4) detects Sweet vernal grass (G1), Velvet grass (G13), Perennial rye grass (G12),Common reed+ (G7), and Rye (G5) IgE antibodies.
Testing for IgE antibodies may be used to help diagnose an allergic disease or the cause of an anaphylactic episode in a patient.
Enzyme and fluorescent-based assays, which were preceded by the RAST test (Radio-AllergoSorbent Test), are performed to detect allergen-specific IgE in the patient's serum.
A food and pharmaceutical ingredient, which may result in allergy symptoms in sensitised individuals.
Ispaghula, more commonly known as Psyllium or Psillium, is a natural hydrophylic mucilloid obtained form the seed husk of plants of the Plantago genus of weeds, which are native to the Mediterranean region and the Near East and are cultivated there and in the southwestern US.
Since 1500, it has been used as a bulk laxative, functioning through its high water-binding capacity.
A great variety of allergic symptoms have been reported to the seed and dust of ispaghula, including asthma and/or rhinitis, pruritis of mouth and eyes, diarrhoea, vomiting, nausea, tachycardia, hypotension, cough, angioedema, abdominal cramping, wheezing, and urticaria.
Acute bronchospasm associated with inhalation of psyllium hydrophilic mucilloid has also been described, as well as eosinophilia.
Abacavir (ABC) is a nucleoside analog reverse transcriptase inhibitor (NRTI) used to treat HIV and AIDS.
The ACSF3 gene (acyl-CoA synthetase family member 3) is located on chromosome 16q24.3.
This gene encodes a member of the acyl-CoA synthetase family of enzymes that activate fatty acids by catalyzing the formation of a thioester linkage between fatty acids and coenzyme A.
The encoded protein is localized to mitochondria, has high specificity for malonate and methylmalonate and possesses malonyl-CoA synthetase activity.
Mutations in this gene are a cause of combined malonic and methylmalonic aciduria.
Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been observed for this gene.
Spelt (Triticum spelta) is a hexaploid species of Wheat.
Spelt was an important staple in parts of Europe from the Bronze Age to medieval times; it now survives as a relict crop in Central Europe and has found a new market as a health food.
Allergic reactions to Spelt have not been commonly reported.
A species in the genus CORONAVIRUS causing the common cold and possibly nervous system infections in humans.
Psychosine (PSY) is a cytotoxic glycosphingolipid that accumulates in the nervous system in the absence of galactosylceramidase (GALC), a lysosomal enzyme.
Deficiency of GALC leads to Krabbe disease (globoid cell leukodystrphy, GLD), a neurological disease characterized by motor defects, seizures, developmental delay, and death usually by age 2.
Psychosine has been shown to be elevated in Krabbe disease and is used as a biomarker to detect or determine the progression of the disease.
An antimetabolite that is converted to deoxyuridine triphosphate during DNA synthesis.
Laboratory suppression of deoxyuridine is used to diagnose megaloblastic anemias due to vitamin B12 and folate deficiencies.
Alpha benzene hexachloride is one of the isomers of hexachlorocyclohexane present in the pesticide Lindane.
Lindane is a mixture of the alpha-, beta-, gamma-, -delta, and epsilon-hexachlorocyclohexane produced when benzene is photochlorinated.
The gamma isomer is the only one that is an active insecticide.
Lindane is used as a pest control on fruits and vegetables, to treat seeds, in forestry, and to treat insects on livestock and pets.
It is also used in the treatment of head and pubic lice and their eggs.
Lindane is highly toxic if ingested, inhaled or if it comes in contact with the skin.
It is a suspected carcinogen and teratogen and is very destructive to internal organs.
Lindane is extremely toxic to aquatic wildlife.
Metanephrine is a metabolite generated when epiniphrine is cleaved by catechol O-methyltransferase.
It is also known as 4-hydroxy-3-methoxy-alpha-((methylamino)methyl) benzenemethanol with formula C10-H15-N-O3.
Found on Hematopoietic progenitor cells.
Associated with AML and rare ALL
Reticulocytes are immature red blood cells (RBCs).
Measures of reticulocyte maturity can provide complementary information to absolute reticulocyte counts for assessing erythropoietic activity.
As reticulocytes mature, they progressively accumulate hemoglobin and lose RNA, so maturity can be measured based on the reticulocyte RNA content.
Automated analyzers can use this property to subclassify reticulocytes into different maturity groups by tagging the intracellular RNA and then measuring the light scatter (fluorescence) of the tagged cells, which is proportional to the RNA content.
RBCs have the least scatter, followed by the most mature reticulocytes, mid-level, and least mature, which have the highest scatter.
The immature reticulocyte fraction (IRF) is defined as the proportion of mid- and high-scatter reticulocytes out of the total.
A rise in IRF is one of the earliest indicators of bone marrow engraftment or recovery from intensive chemotherapy.
The IRF can also be used as an early indicator of response to erythropoietin therapy in patients with chronic renal failure and to treatment for anemia.
O(6)-methylguanine-DNA methyltransferase (MGMT) is an essential enzyme involved in the repair of damage caused by a variety of DNA crosslinking compounds, including alkylating agents.
Hypermethylation of the MGMT gene promoter region causes diminished or silenced expression of the gene, making cells more sensitive to DNA damage and prone to tumor development.
Approximately 40% to 45% of glioblastoma multiforme (GBM) tumors exhibit MGMT gene methylation.
In patients with malignant brain tumors, the loss of activity has been shown to be a promising predictor of response to alkylating agent-based chemotherapies, including BCNU (carmustine), CCNU and Temozolomide.
The loss of MGMT activity in tumor cells can no longer repair the methyl adduct formation caused by the chemotherapy, leading to lethal cross-links between DNA strands.
Most patients with methylated MGMT (m_MGMT) experience an increase in overall survival and time to progression of the disease.
Ephedrine (EPH) is a sympathomimetic amine similar in structure to the synthetic derivatives amphetamine and methamphetamine.
Ephedrine is commonly used as a stimulant, appetite suppressant, concentraton aid, decongestant and to treat hypotension associated with regional anaesthesia.
Chemically, it is an alkaloid derived from various plants in the genus Ephedra (family Ephedraceae).
It is most usually marketed in the hydrochloride and sulfate forms.
In traditional Chinese medicine, the herb ma huang (Ephedra sinica) contains ephedrine as its principal active constituent.
The same is true of other herbal products containing extracts from Ephedra species.
Nagayoshi Nagai was the first one to isolate ephedrine from Ephedra vulgaris in 1885.
The substance called soma mentioned in old Hindu books such as the Rig Veda, may have been ephedra extract.
2-hydroxyisobutyrate is the major urinary matbolite of ETBE, an oxygenated compound used in gasoline to increase oxygen content and reduce vehicle exhaust emission and aromatic compound content.
Individuals exposed to ETBE have higher levels of 2-hydroxyisobutyrate as well as 2-methyl-1,2-propane diol.
Neurological effects have only been observed at high levels of exposure.
Neisseria meningitidis, also simply known as meningococcus is a gram-negative bacterium best known for its role in meningitis.
It only infects humans; there is no animal reservoir.
It is the only form of bacterial meningitis to cause epidemics.
27-Norcholestanehexol is a bile alcohol.
Bile alcohols have been found to be present as minor components in the bile and urine in healthy subjects.
Bile alcohols are end products for cholesterol elimination as well as major biliary constituents; in mammals, cholesterol is metabolized by additional enzymes that ultimately transform it to bile acids.
Bile alcohols are preferentially excreted as glucuronides into the urine, which constitute about 10% of total bile acids.
The excretion of glucuronidated bile alcohols in urine is suggested to reflect an alternative metabolism of intermediates in the normal biosynthesis of bile acids.
The motor conduction velocity is the speed at which a nerve impulse travels and is calculated based on the distance between the stimulation and recording sides and the latency.
The conduction velocity is affected by temperature, which is why it is important to monitor and maintain optimal limb temperature during the study.
The Common sunflower is a plant from which we obtain Sunflower oil and seeds.
The Sunflower is native to Central America but is now grown, mostly for its oilseeds, in many semi-arid regions of the world from Argentina to Canada and from central Africa into the Soviet Union.
The leaves are usually used as fodder, and may be grown for this purpose alone, particularly where the season is too short and cool for maize.
Sunflower pollen is a cause of asthma, allergic rhinitis and allergic conjunctivitis, and is an important occupational allergen in areas where Sunflower is grown.
A polymerase chain reaction (PCR) assay using nox-specific restriction fragment length polymorphisms (RFLPs) has been developed that can differentiate all five species of porcine Brachyspira.
The nox gene encodes NADH oxidase in Brachyspira species.
Species of Brachyspira can be differentiated based on the nox gene sequence due to its variability across species.
Several species of the gram-negative spirochete Brachyspira can cause swine dysentery (SD) including B. hyodysenteriae, B. intermedia, B. innocens, B. murdochii, B. aalborgi, B. alvinipulli, B. suanatina, and a provisional species called Brachyspira hampsonii.
B. hyodysenteriae, B. suanatina, and B. hampsonii cause a severe mucohaemorrhagic colitis found mainly in grower and finisher pigs.
Brachyspira that are weakly heamolytic causing a mild colitis include B. murdochii, B. intermedia, B. aalborgi, and B. alvinipulli in pigs, chickens and humans.
Transmission of Brachyspira sp can occur in several ways including: pigs that have subclinical infection; infection from birds or feral animals that act as potential reservoirs; reduced immunity in a herd; routine diagnostic and control measures are not adhered to; and environmental changes such as a change in diet, co-infections and other stresses that increase norepinephrine levels in the gut that can result in the growth and colonization of some species of Brachyspira.
Diagnoses of Brachyspira species are primarily made using polymerase chain reaction (PCR) test and/or immune staining.
Porcine deltacoronavirus (PDCoV) is a member of the family Coronaviridae in the genus Deltacoronavirus.
It is related to Transmissible Gastroenteritis (TGE) Virus and Porcine Epidemic Diarrhea Virus (PEDv) and causes similar but sometimes less severe disease in swine as PEDv.
Porcine deltacoronavirus does not affect humans or other non-porcine animals.
Co-infection with other enteric pathogens like PEDv is common.
Refers to positive pattern different than C-ANCA, P-ANCA or atypical C-ANCA.
The respiratory effort-related arousal (RERA) index is calculated as the number of RERA per hour of sleep.
Fetal isoform of fibronectin found in amniotic fluid and placenta. found in cervical and vaginal fluid in early first trimester.
third trimester levels > 50 ng/ml predictive of premature labor.
Glyburide testing is used during the evaluation of suspected insulinoma characterized by hypoglycemia and increased plasma insulin concentration.
Glyburide is a second-generation sulfonylurea drug.
Endoglin, or CD105, is a type I membrane glycoprotein located on cell surfaces and is part of the TGF beta receptor complex.
The protein consists of a homodimer of 180 kDA with disulfide links.
It has been found on endothelial cells, activated macrophages, fibroblasts, and smooth muscle cells.
The material of which the chromosomes of organisms other than bacteria (i.e., eukaryotes) are composed of.
It is a complex of DNA, histones and nonhistone proteins found within the nucleus of a cell.
M3 muscarinic acetylcholine receptors (M3R) are part of the rhodopsin-like G-protein coupled receptor family.
They are present on many tissues throughout the body and control the effects of acetylcholine in the central and peripheral nervous system as well as have an impact on physiological functions including the airway, eye and intestinal smooth muscle contraction, heart rate and glandular secretions.
(M3R) is one of five muscarinic acetylcholine receptor subtypes and is located in smooth muscles, endocrine glands, exocrine glands, lungs, pancreas and the brain.
The M3R influences exocrine secretion including saliva.
Antibodies that inhibit M3R have been found in patients with Sjögren's syndrome (SS).
SS is an autoimmune disease that involves an autoimmune attack against the salivary and lacrimal glands.
A negative result for M3R antibody does not rule out myasthenia gravis.
Previously known as Torulopsis glabrata, Candida glabrata is a fungal saprophyte that is part of the normal flora of human mucosal tissues and is usually nonpathogenic.
Unlike other species of Candida, C glabarata has a nondimorphic blastoconicial morphology and a haploid genome.
C glabrata often is implicated in superficial infections of the mouth, esophagus, vagina, urinary tract, and in systemic candida infections.
C glabrata infection has become common in patients on immunosuppressive therapy and in patients with diabetes.
It can be difficult to treat since it is resistant to a number of antifungal agents including fluconazole.
As a result, immunocompromised patients have a high mortality rate when infected with C glabrata.
Egg-specific IgE antibodies are usually the first antibodies to appear in children developing atopic disease.
Copper (symbol Cu, from Latin cuprum) is a heavy metal with an atomic number of 29 and atomic weight of 63.55.
It is a ductile metal with excellent electrical conductivity.
It was extensively used as an electrical conductor, building material, and component of various alloys.
It is an essential nutrient to all higher plants and animals where it is found primarily as a cofactor in various enzymes, and in copper-based pigments.
In high amounts, copper can be poisonous or even fatal.
American Beech is a tall deciduous tree usually growing 20-25 m tall, although trees up to 40 m have been recorded.
In studies on patients with seasonal rhinitis, it was found that Birch, Beech, Alder, Hazel, bog-myrtle and Oak pollens are most important as causes of springtime hay fever.
However, Beech pollen does not play the most significant role in causing hay fever.
Rhinitis and asthma caused by exposure to Beech wood dust in wood workers has also been described.
Norketamine is a major metabolite of ketamine
Wine vinegar is made from red or white wine and is the most commonly used vinegar in Mediterranean countries and Central Europe.
As with wine, there is a considerable range in quality.
Better quality wine vinegars are matured in wood for up to two years and exhibit a complex, mellow flavor.
Wine vinegar tends to have a lower acidity than that of white or cider vinegars.
There are more expensive wine vinegars that are made from individual varieties of wine, such as Champagne, Sherry, or pinot grigio.
The COL3A1 gene (collagen, type III, alpha 1) is located on chromosome 2q31.
This gene encodes the pro-alpha1 chains of type III collagen, a fibrillar collagen that is found in extensible connective tissues such as skin, lung, uterus, intestine and the vascular system, frequently in association with type I collagen.
Mutations in this gene are associated with Ehlers-Danlos syndrome types IV, and with aortic and arterial aneurysms.
Two transcripts, resulting from the use of alternate polyadenylation signals, have been identified for this gene.
Band 3 protein, also known as anion exchanger or AE1, is a bicarbonate transporter that is the most common protein in human red blood cell membranes.
Band 3 has two major functions: mechanical support of the cell by linking ankyrin to the cytoskeletal network, and CO2/HCO3- exchange.
The V191I mutation is associated with Lamivudine resistance
2,5-Furandicarboxylic acid is a normal urinary metabolite in humans.
Dietary studies show that the furan derivatives or their precursors are of exogenous origin.
They are originated from furan derivatives found in food prepared by strong heating.
This may explain the absence of 2,5-furandicarboxylic acid in urine of breastfed children, and the absence of these acids in the urine of rat, pig, cow, ox, rabbit, and monkey.
Ciprofloxacin is the generic international name for the synthetic antibiotic manufactured and sold by Bayer Pharmaceutical under the brand names Cipro® and Ciproxin®.
It belongs to a group called fluoroquinolones, is bactericidal.
Its mode of action depends upon blocking bacterial DNA replication by binding itself to an enzyme called DNA gyrase.
Spironolactone (marketed as Aldactone ®, Novo-Spiroton ®, Spiractin ®, Spirotone ®, or Berlactone ®) is a synthetic 17-lactone steroid which is a renal competitive aldosterone antagonist in a class of pharmaceuticals called potassium -sparing diuretics, used primarily to treat low-renin hypertension, hypokalemia, and Conn's syndrome.
On its own, spironolactone is only a weak diuretic, but it can be combined with other diuretics.
Due to its anti-androgen effect, it can also be used to treat hirsutism, and is a common component in hormone therapy for male-to-female transgendered people.
Also used for treating hair loss and acne in women.
S-adenosylmethionine (SAMe) is the major methyl donor involved in enzymatic transmethylation reactions in proteins, DNA, phospholipids and neurotransmitters.
It plays a key role in the maintenance of human health and in the prevention of disease.
Decreased SAMe levels often occur in the presence of folate and cobalamin (vitamin B12) deficiency.
Low SAMe levels have been associated with depression, dementia, and liver disease.
Diethylamine is a secondary amine with the molecular structure CH3CH2NHCH2CH3.
It is a flammable, strongly alkaline liquid.
It is miscible with water and ethanol.
As a liquid it has a dark brown color due to impurities, however when distilled it is colorless.
It is volatile and has a strong unpleasant odor.
Diethylamine is manufactured from ethanol and ammonia and is obtained together with ethylamine and triethylamine.
It is used as a corrosion inhibitor and in the production of rubber, resins, dyes and pharmaceuticals.
Diethylamine is a corrosive chemical and contact with skin may cause irritation or burns.
Glutamate decarboxylase 65 (GAD65) antibody is useful to diagnose insulin dependent diabetes mellitus (IDDM, Type I diabetes), to assess the risk for developing IDDM, to predict the onset of IDDM and the risk of developing related endocrine disorders such as thyroiditis.
Before clinical onset, Type I diabetes is characterized by lymphocytic infiltration of the islet cells and by circulating autoantibodies against a variety of islet cell antigens including GAD-65, IA-2 (a tyrosine phosphatase-like protein), and insulin (IAA).
GAD has two isoforms, GAD65 and GAD67, which are highly homologous but found in distinct subsets of patients.
GAD65 antibodies are specific to patients with insulin-dependent diabetes.
The presence of GAD antibodies in a patient recently diagnosed with diabetes indicates a high risk of requiring insulin within three years.
GAD67 is important to the maturation of perisomatic innervation.
which is an autoimmune disorder that is manifested by progressive neurological syndromes of any combination of the central, peripheral and autonomic nervous systems.
In addition, the different PNS antibodies are associated with certain cancers and can assist in identifying where an unknown tumor is located.
Glutamic acid decarboxylase 65 antibody are associated with stiff person syndrome, cerebellar ataxia encephalitis and other neurological diseases.
Glycoprotein- or glycolipid-bound sialic acid is released by malignant cells and known as lipid-bound or lipid-associated sialic acid (LASA, LSA).
Elevated LSA levels are seen in various malignancies, including breast and ovarian cancers, melanomas, leukemias, lymphomas, and Hodgkin's disease.
Levels can also be elevated in benign, inflammatory, and chronic diseases.
Decreased LSA levels are associated with a therapeutic response.
Palmitoleylcarnitine is a secondary marker for Very long-chain acyl-CoA dehydrogenase deficiency, Long-chain L-3-Hydroxy dehydrogenase deficiency, Trifunctional protein deficiency, Carnitine acylcarnitine translocase deficiency, and Carnitine palmitoyltransferase II deficiency.
Methicillin resistance in S. aureus is primarily mediated by the mecA gene which is carried on a mobile genetic element called the staphylococcal cassette chromosome mec (SCCmec), which integrates at an open reading frame in the S. aureus genome known as orfX.
Trichophyton fungi inhabit the soil, humans and animals, different species preferring different environments.
Most common are Trichophyton mentagrophytes, Trichophyton rubrum, Trichophyton schoenleinii, Trichophyton tonsurans, Trichophyton verrucosum, and Trichophyton violaceum.
Some species are cosmopolitan.
Others have a restricted geographic distribution.
Trichophyton concentricum, for example, is endemic on Pacific Islands, Southeast Asia, and Central America.
Trichophyton is one of the leading causes of hair, skin, and nail infections in humans.
classically induce delayed-type, or cell-mediated, hypersensitivity, but a unique feature of Trichophyton allergens is the ability of the same antigen to elicit immediate-type hypersensitivity reactions as well.
An unpleasant sensation in the stomach usually accompanied by the urge to vomit.
Common causes are early pregnancy, sea and motion sickness, emotional stress, intense pain, food poisoning, and various enteroviruses.
The s' wave represents the mitral or tricuspid valve annular tissue velocity on doppler ultrasound during systole.
The peak mitral and tricuspid valve annular velocities are a measure of left and right ventricular systolic function, respectively.
The time interval between the end of the a' wave (atrial contraction), and the beginning of s' is also an indicator of systolic ventricular function, whereas the interval between the end of s' and the beginning of the e' wave (early diastole) is an indicator of diastolic ventricular function.
California encephalitis virus is an arbovirus of the California (CAL) serogroup virus which belongs to the Bunyaviridae family of viruses, and the genus Orthobunyavirus.
Other CAL serogroup viruses found in the United States include La Crosse virus (LACV), Jamestown Canyon virus (JCV), Snowshoe hare virus, and Trivitattus virus.
California encephalitis virus was first isolated in 1943 from mosquitoes.
In 1945, 3 cases were isolated in humans.
The fourth case was not reported until 2001 but it was found in a coastal area of California similiar to where the first 3 cases were isolated.
Anidulafungin is a semisynthetic anti-fungal medication in the echinocandin class of drugs.
It is used to treat fungal infections, including invasive candidiasis.
Like other echinocandins, anidulafungin targets the fungal cell wall and is fungicidal for all species of Candida, including those strains that are resistant to amphotericin B and azoles.
Dichlorodifluoromethane (R-12), usually sold under the brand name Freon-12, is a chlorofluorocarbon halomethane (CFC), used as a refrigerant and aerosol spray propellant.
It is soluble in many organic solvents.
Alpha-1-acid glycoprotein (AGP or orosomucoid ORM), is an acute phase reactant glycoprotein found in a number of conditions, and considered a natural anti-inflammatory and immunomodulatory agent, particularly with respect to its anti-neutrophil and anti-complement activity.
Serum levels increase in response to systemic tissue injury, inflammation or infection.
Expression of the AGP gene is regulated through major mediators (glucocorticoids and a cytokine network involving mostly interleukin-1β (IL-1β), tumour necrosis factor-α (TNFα), interleukin-6 and IL-6 related cytokines).
AGP is used to monitor acute-phase proteins related to inflammatory conditions like RA, Crohn's disease, injuries, burns, malignant neoplasms, and inflammation or infection conditions of unknown etiology.
Low serum concentrations may be due to chronic liver diseases or to increased excretion of the protein as in nephritic syndrome.(Lab Partner1)
The ratio of MET signals per nucleus to chromosome 7 signals per nucleus is used to determine if MET gene amplification has occurred.
MET amplification is a biomarker for different types of cancer, including non-small cell lung cancer.
High-molecular-weight kininogen (HMWK), also known as the Williams-Fitzgerald-Flaujeac factor or the Fitzgerald factor or the HMWK-kallikrein factor, is a protein from the blood coagulation system as well as the kinin-kallikrein system.
It is a protein that adsorbs to the surface of biomaterials that come in contact with blood in vivo.
This protein circulates throughout the blood and quickly adsorbs to the material surfaces.
Measurement of HMWK is usually done with mixing studies, where plasma deficient in HMWK is mixed with the patient's sample and the PTT determined.
Results are expressed in % of normal - values under 60% or over 140% are abnormal.
A legal letter is usually prepared for insurance companies or lawyers to answer a specific limited clinical question.
Many institutions have a legal department who can be involved in addressing legal rights, responsibilities, and responses to some type of legal action initiated from external sources.
Immediately after ejaculation into the collection vessel, semen is typically a semisolid coagulated mass.
Within a few minutes at room temperature, the semen usually begins to liquefy (become thinner), at which time a heterogeneous mixture of lumps will be seen in the fluid.
As liquefaction continues, the semen becomes more homogeneous and quite watery, and in the final stages only small areas of coagulation remain.
The complete sample usually liquefies within 15 minutes at room temperature, although rarely it may take up to 60 minutes or more.
If complete liquefaction does not occur within 60 minutes, this should be recorded.
Scedosporium prolificans is a fungus found in soil and polluted waters that is closely related to Pseudoallescheria boydii and S apiospermum, all of which cause opportunistic infections in immunocompromised patients.
S prolificans is also associated with respiratory and central nervous system infections in patients with near-drowning victims who inhale contaminated water.
S prolificans is widely resistant to available antifungal medications.
Tilia americana is a species of Tilia, native to eastern North America, from southeast Manitoba east to New Brunswick, southwest to northeast Texas, and southeast to South Carolina, and west along the Niobrara River to Cherry County, Nebraska.
Common names include Basswood (also applied to other species of Tilia in the timber trade) and American Linden or the Lime-Tree.
The JAK3 gene (Janus kinase 3) is located on chromosome 19p13.1.
The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the Janus kinase (JAK) family of tyrosine kinases involved in cytokine receptor-mediated intracellular signal transduction.
It is predominantly expressed in immune cells and transduces a signal in response to its activation via tyrosine phosphorylation by interleukin receptors.
Mutations in this gene are associated with autosomal SCID (severe combined immunodeficiency disease).
The MPZ gene (myelin protein zero) is located on chromosome 1q23.3.
This gene encodes a major structural protein of peripheral myelin.
Mutations in this gene result in the autosomal dominant form of Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease type 1 and other polyneuropathies.
Methyl isobutyl ketone (MIBK) is the organic compound with the formula (CH3)2CHCH2C(O)CH3.
This colorless liquid, a ketone, is widely used as a solvent.
Metaldehyde is an organic compound with the formula (CH3CHO)4.
It is commonly used as a pesticide against slugs, snails, and other gastropods.
It is the cyclic tetramer of acetaldehyde.
Candida guilliermondii is part of a group of phenotypically indistinguishable species of Candida that together are called Candida guilliermondii complex.
All of the species are genetically distinct and include Candida guilliermondii, Candida fermentati, Candida carpophila, and Candida xestobiiis.
C. guilliermondii complex infections are known to be uncommon, with some studies reporting incidence of candidemia at about 2%, and it is most commonly seen in patients with hematologic malignancies.
It has been reported that C. guilliermondii has diminished susceptibility to azoles and echinocandins, although the epidemiologic and clinical information about C. guilliermondii complex infections is limited .
Chromosome 21 aneuploidy is a chromosome abnormality involving missing or extra chromosomes at chromosome 21.
Propionyl-CoA carboxylase catalyses the carboxylation reaction of propionyl CoA.
The product of the reaction is (S)-methylmalonyl CoA. Propionyl CoA is the end product of metabolism of odd-chain fatty acids, and is also a metabolite of most methyl-branched fatty acids.
It is also the main metabolite of valine, and together with acetyl-CoA, is a metabolite of isoleucine, as well as a methionine metabolite.
Propionyl-CoA is thus of great importance as a glucose precursor.
(S)-Methylmalonyl-CoA is not directly utilizable by animals; it is acted on by a racemase to give (R)-methylmalonyl-CoA.
The latter is converted by methylmalonyl-CoA mutase (one of a very few Vitamin B12 dependent enzymes) to give succinyl-CoA.
The latter is converted to oxaloacetate and then malate in the Krebs cycle.
Export of malate into the cytosol leads to formation of oxaloacetate, phosphoenol pyruvate, and other gluconeogenic intermediates.
A deficiency is associated with propionic acidemia.
A cardioactive glycoside consisting of rhamnose and ouabagenin, obtained from the seeds of Strophanthus gratus and other plants of the Apocynaceae; used like DIGITALIS.
It is commonly used in cell biological studies as an inhibitor of the NA(+)-K(+)-EXCHANGING ATPASE.
Rickettsia is a genus of non-motile, Gram-negative, and highly pleomorphic bacteria.
Their survival depends on entry, growth, and replication within the cytoplasm of eukaryotic host cells.
Rickettsia species are carried by many ticks, fleas, and lice, and cause a variety of diseases in humans.
Rickettsia is classified into three groups: spotted fever, typhus and scrub typhus.
Original classification was based on serology and has since been confirmed by DNA sequencing.
Rickettsia spotted fever group and associated illnesses include R rickettsii (Rocky Mountain spotted fever), R akari (Rickettsialpox), R conorii (Boutonneuse fever), R sibirica (Siberian tick typhus or North Asian tick typhus), R australis (Australian tick typhus), R felis (Flea-borne spotted fever), R japonica (Oriental spotted fever), R africae (African tick bite fever), and R hoogstraalii (unknown pathogenicity).
The delayed type hypersensitivity skin test can be used to assess patients for a functioning cell-mediated immune response.
Mumps antigen, tetanus toxoid, trichophytin, and Candida albicans are often employed as part of a battery to assess cell-mediated anergy, although individual laboratories may use different subsets of antigens .
The protein encoded by this MAP2K2 gene is a dual specificity protein kinase that belongs to the MAP kinase kinase family.
This kinase is known to play a critical role in mitogen growth factor signal transduction.
It phosphorylates and thus activates MAPK1/ERK2 and MAPK2/ERK3.
The activation of this kinase itself is dependent on the Ser/Thr phosphorylation by MAP kinase kinase kinases.
The inhibition or degradation of this kinase is found to be involved in the pathogenesis of Yersinia and anthrax.
Fel d 4 (a lipocalin) is an important cat allergen.
It is the product of the cat major urinary protein gene, but is primarily produced in saliva and is deposited onto dander as the cat grooms itself.
63% of cat allergic people have antibodies against Fel d4.
Aspartame is an artificial non-saccharide sweetener 200 times sweeter than sucrose, and is commonly used as a sugar substitute in foods and beverages.
Aspartame is one of the most rigorously tested food ingredients.
The prevalence of latex allergy among health care personnel ranges from 2-25%.
Numerous items, such as latex gloves, catheters, condoms, balloons, sports equipment etc., are pathways for allergen exposure.
(e.g. inhalation of the powder from latex gloves, direct skin or mucosa (membrane) contact).
An element that belongs to the alkali group of metals.
Symbol K, atomic number 19, and atomic weight 39.10.
It is the main cation in the intracellular fluid of muscle and other cells.
Potassium ion is a strong electrolyte and it plays a significant role in the regulation of fluid volume and maintenance of the water-electrolyte balance.
11-Deoxytetahydrocorticosterone (or tetrahydro-11-deoxycorticosterone, TH-DOC) is, among other steroids like pregnanetriol (P3), a biomarker included in urinary steroid excretion profiles for the evaluation of congenital adrenal hyperplasia (CAH) due to a 17-hydroxylase deficiency.
TH-DOC levels are also measured to determine the effectiveness of medication (e.g. cortisol supplementation) against the disease.
The John W. Huffman (JWH) research group at Clemson University synthesized over 450 cannabinoids.
Oxycodone, a semi synthetic narcotic analgesic, is structurally similar to codeine.
Oxycodone has high abuse potential.
Oxymorphone is a metabolite of Oxycodone.
Screening of oxycodone may be done on forensic samples such as oral fluid (saliva), serum, plasma, blood, and urine.
Pipemidic acid is a member of the pyridopyrimidine class of antibacterials, which display some overlap in mechanism of action with analogous pyridone-containing quinolones.
The CPOX gene (coproporphyrinogen oxidase) is located on chromosome 3q11.2.
The protein encoded by this gene is the sixth enzyme of the heme biosynthetic pathway.
The encoded enzyme is soluble and found in the intermembrane space of mitochondria.
This enzyme catalyzes the stepwise oxidative decarboxylation of coproporphyrinogen III to protoporphyrinogen IX, a precursor of heme.
Defects in this gene are a cause of hereditary coproporphyria (HCP).
Bone alkaline phosphatase (B-ALP) isoenzyme is produced by osteoblasts and increases in serum in association with osteoblastic activity.
The bone isoenzyme is a significant isoenzyme that should be interpreted with respect to age.
Increase of bone isoenzyme is associated with malignancies, such as breast cancer with bone or liver metastasis and osteosarcoma and lymphoma with or without metastasis.
Increased bone isoenzyme is also associated with rheumatismal diseases, hyperparathyroidism, Paget disease and rachitism.
Mitochondrial DNA complex I (NADH dehydrogenase) include the following genes: MT-ND1, MT-ND2, MT-ND3, MT-ND4, MT-ND4L, MT-ND5, MT-ND6
Cystinuria is an inherited amino acid transport problem resulting in large amounts of cystine being excreted in the urine.
Cystinuria often causes the formation of staghorn calculi or multiple large, bilateral stones.
Urinary tract obstruction, infection, and renal failure are common, especially in men, due to the size and shape of the stones.
Recurrence of cystine stones is common following surgical treatment.
Therapy includes reducing excretion and increasing solubility of cystine.
Cystine is a hydrophilic amino acid with uncharged polar groups.
Cystines' sulfhydryl group is functional in the activity of many enzymes.
Increased in cystinuria which is caused by mutations in the SLC3A1 and SLC7A9 genes.
Cyn d 1 belongs to Group 1 grass pollen allergens which are the most frequently recognized grass pollen allergens.
This allergen group is unique to the grass family and no cross-reactive allergens in pollen of other plants are known.
Some diversity exists among members of the Group 1 grass pollen allergens of different subfamilies of grasses, making Cyn d 1 from Bermuda grass at least partly immuno-logically distinct from Phl p 1 from timothy grass.
Thus, Cyn d 1 is specifically suited as a marker of Bermuda grass pollen sensitization
11-Hydroxyetiocholanolone is a sex hormone secreted by the testes and adrenal glands.
The normal accumulation in the urine after 24-hour collection is 0.2 to 0.6 mg in men and 0.1 to 1 mg in women.
A chicken (Gallus gallus domesticus) is a type of domesticated bird which is often raised as a type of poultry.
It is believed to be descended from the wild Indian and south-east Asian Red Junglefowl.
With a population of more than 26.56 billion in 2022 (according to the Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO) statistics), there are more chickens in the world than any other bird.
They provide two sources of food frequently consumed by humans: their meat, also known as chicken, and eggs.
Danazol (brand name Danocrine) is a derivative of the synthetic steroid ethisterone, a modified testosterone.
It was approved by the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) in the early 1970s to treat endometriosis but has essentially been replace by GnRH agonists.
Danazol has been used for other indications, including management of menorrhagia, fibrocystic breast disease, immune thrombocytopenic purpura, breast pain (mastodynia) and hereditary angioedema.
Danazol is also classified as an anabolic steroid, which places it in the category of sports doping agents.
It is listed by the world antidoping agency as a banned substance.
Small, colorless granules with usually no clinical significance, but may be associated with stones.
Mercaptopurine, a cancer fighting medicine, which also can be used to treat many types of autoimmune disease, such as systemic lupus erythematosus, rheumatoid arthritis, and multiple sclerosis.
It belongs to a group of drugs known as antimetabolites; cancer cells take up mercaptopurine which then interferes with their growth.
Cantharellus cibarius, also commonly known as Chanterelle, is an edible fungus that grows in mixed woodland forests under birch, oak, chestnut, and hazelnut trees across Europe and North America.
The color of the Chantrelle varies from a deep yellow to almost white.
It has an aroma similar to apricots and a pleasing texture when cooked.
Leptospira is a flexible, spiral-shaped, Gram-negative spirochete with internal flagella.
Leptospira interrogans has many serovars based on cell surface antigens.
Most leptospirosis infections initially present with an acute onset of fever, headache and muscle pain, which symptoms last about a week.
The three organ systems most frequently involved with more significant illness are the central nervous system, kidneys, and liver, and jaundice occurs with severe infections.
With the appearance of antileptospiral antibodies, the acute phase of the disease subsides and leptospires can no longer be isolated from the blood.
The disease is usually biphasic, with the acute phase followed by an immune phase, which occurs after an asymptomatic period of several days.
The immune phase is associated with fever and central nervous system involvement, specifically meningitis.
Leptospires appear in the urine during this phase and are shed for various periods depending on the host.
Severe leptospirosis is associated with progressive impairment of hepatic and renal function, and renal failure is the most common cause of death.
Leptospirosis is a worldwide zoonosis with a variety of animal hosts.
The primary reservoir is wild animals such as rodents, which can shed leptospires throughout their lifetimes.
Domestic animals are also an important source of human infections.
The disease is more widespread in tropical countries.
Direct or indirect contact with urine containing virulent leptospires is the major means by which leptospirosis is transmitted.
Leptospira species, which include L. interrogans, L. autumnalis, L. borgpetersenii, and L. weili are further divided into more than 200 serotypes based on their antigenic composition.
The more severe form of leptospirosis is frequently associated with the icterohaemorrhagiae serotype and is often referred to as Weil's disease.
A species of gram-negative bacteria that causes ehrlichiosis in humans.
This organism was first discovered at Fort Chaffee, Arkansas, when blood samples from suspected human ehrlichiosis patients were studied.
The RAF1 (Raf-1 proto-oncogene, serine/threonine kinase) gene is located on chromosome 3p25.
This gene is the cellular homolog of viral raf gene (v-raf).
The encoded protein is a MAP kinase kinase kinase (MAP3K), which functions downstream of the Ras family of membrane associated GTPases to which it binds directly.
Once activated, the cellular RAF1 protein can phosphorylate to activate the dual specificity protein kinases MEK1 and MEK2, which in turn phosphorylate to activate the serine/threonine specific protein kinases, ERK1 and ERK2.
Activated ERKs are pleiotropic effectors of cell physiology and play an important role in the control of gene expression involved in the cell division cycle, apoptosis, cell differentiation and cell migration.
Mutations in this gene are associated with Noonan syndrome 5 and LEOPARD syndrome 2.
Floxacillin or flucloxacillin (tradename Flopen or Floxapen) is an isoxazolyl penicillin often used to treat many infections caused by Gram-positive species, such as streptococci and penicillinase-producing staphylococci, including methicillin-susceptible Staphylococcus aureus (MSSA).
Studies have shown that flucloxacillin is 95%-97% bound to plasma albumin.
The extent of binding to plasma proteins is important, as it is the unbound (free) fraction of drug that produces the pharmacological effect.
For critically ill patients, hypoalbuminaemia may be observed, and the effects of hypoalbuminaemia on the pharmacokinetics of highly bound antiboitics may pose a potential risk for inappropriate antibiotic therapy in these patients.
The date and time the decendent was pronounced dead.
The 4 most frequent crystal subcategory: Calcium oxalate monohydrate, calcium oxalate dihydrate, triple phosphate, uric acid.
Atypical crystals are results of manual supervision of the results, where the professional operator decides that the crystals found in the urine cannot be subcategorized because they are not belonging to any known urine crystals.
For example, several drugs can occasionally cause transient crystalluria.
Elytrigia repens (couch grass; syn. Triticum repens L., Agropyron repens (L.) P. Beauv., Elymus repens (L.) Gould) is a very common species of grass native to most of Europe, Asia, and northwest Africa.
Other names include twitch, quick grass, quitch grass, dog grass, and quackgrass.
In the beta cells of the pancreas, the proinsulin molecule is cleaved to form insulin and C-peptide.
C-peptide, a polypeptide consisting of 31 amino acids (MW~3000), is stored in the secretory granules of the beta cells and released into circulation in equimolar amounts with insulin.
Aids in diagnosis and treatment of patients with abnormal insulin secretion including diabetes mellitus.
Filamentous actin or F-actin consists of long filamentous polymers of G-actin subunits.
F-actin makes up the cytoskeletal element called microfilaments which measure approxiately 7nm in diameter.
Xp22.33 and Yp11.32 regions of the sex chromosomes contain the pseudoautosomal region 1 (PAR1), a homologous region between the X & Y chromosomes that is paired at male meiosis and undergoes recombination.
The PAR1 region contains at least 24 genes, including the SHOX (short stature homeobox-containing) gene.
Deletions or duplications in the SHOX gene or its regulatory regions are known to cause disorders associated with short stature, including Leri-Weill dyschondrosteosis (LWD), Langer mesomelic dysplasia (LMD), and Idiopathic short stature (ISS).
The bba64 gene of Borrelia burdorferi encodes a surface-exposed lipoprotein.
The expression of bba64 is tightly regulated by environmental characteristics that are useful to the bacteria as it moves between hosts.
The expression of bba64 is triggered when the vector tick begins to feed and continues during the infection of the vertebrate host.
Droperidol is a neuroleptic drug (butyrophenone class) frequently used postoperatively as an antiemetic and a sedative.
Allergic manifestations include anaphylactic shock, angioedema (swollen tongue), erythema of face and torso and bronchospasm.
The ALS4 gene (senataxin) gene is located on chromosome 9q34.13.
This gene encodes a protein named for its homology to the Sen1p protein of fungi which has RNA helicase activity encoded by a domain at the C-terminal end of the protein.
The protein encoded by this gene contains a DNA/RNA helicase domain at its C-terminal end which suggests that it may be involved in both DNA and RNA processing.
Mutations in this gene have been associated with ataxia-ocular apraxia-2 (AOA2) and an autosomal dominant form of juvenile amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS4).
A starch found in the tubers and roots of many plants.
Since it is hydrolyzable to fructose, it is classified as a fructosan.
It has been used in physiologic investigation for determination of the rate of glomerular function.
Chlamydia trachomatis is one of three bacterial species in the genus Chlamydia, family Chlamydiaceae, class Chlamydiae.
C. trachomatis has only been found living inside human cells.
It causes urethritis, epididymitis, and proctitis in men and cervicitis, salpingitis, urethritis and proctitis in women.
C. trachomatis has also been detected in some patients with temporomandibular joint (TMJ) disease.
It may be treated with any of several antibiotics such as azithromycin, erythromycin or doxycyclinetetracycline.
C. trachomatis was the first chlamydial agent discovered in humans.
It comprises two human biovars: trachoma and lymphogranuloma venereum (LGV).
Many, but not all, C. trachomatis strains have an extrachromosomal plasmid.
The fusion of promyelocytic leukemia (PML, chromosome 15q24.1) and retinoic acid receptor alpha (RARA, chromosome 17q21.1) genes occurs due to a chromosomal translocation.
The fused genes can be detected by various molecular techniques, including FISH and real-time quantitative polymerase chain reaction (RT-qPCR).
The test is used to diagnose Acute Promyelocytic Leukemia (APL), detect residual or recurrent APL, and to monitor PML-RARA levels in patients with APL.
The assay can be done on whole blood (plasma or cell-based) and bone marrow.
Long, variant and/or short isoforms of PML-RARA fusion transcripts may be identified.
The ratio of PML-RARA fusion transcript to a control gene (e.g. ABL1) may be reported for positive samples.
The inferior angle between the Basion-Nasion line and CC (Pterygoid-Gnathion line)
Topoisomerase I (also known as Scl-70) is a nuclear enzyme that plays a role in releasing tension that is introduced in double-stranded DNA during DNA replication by transiently cleaving and rejoining one strand of the DNA duplex.
Anti-Scl-70 autoantibodies are a marker of systemic sclerosis as well as other autoimmune diseases, including systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE).
In patients with systemic sclerosis, anti-SCL-70 may be associated with more severe disease, and in patients with SLE, anti-SCL-70 suggests an increased risk of pulmonary hypertension and renal involvement.
In general, anti-SCL-70 antibody status may help with diagnosis, treatment planning and prognosis in patients with connective tissue disease.
Androstenedione (also known as 4-androstenedione) is a 19-carbon steroid hormone produced in the adrenal glands and the gonads as an intermediate step in the biochemical pathway that produces the androgen testosterone and the estrogens estrone and estradiol.
It is the common precursor of male and female sex hormones.
Some androstenedione is also secreted into the plasma, and may be converted in peripheral tissues to testosterone and estrogens.
Androstenedione originates either from the conversion of dehydroepiandrosterone or from 17-hydroxyprogesterone.
It is further converted to either testosterone or estrone.
The production of adrenal androstenedione is governed by ACTH, while production of gonadal androstenedione is controled by gonadotropins.
In premenopausal women the adrenal glands and ovaries each produce about half of the total androstendione (about 3 mgday).
CD19+ Lambda + Cells are used to evaluate immune status, lymphocytic leukemias, multiple myelomas and lymphomas.
B. quintana is carried by body lice.
Infection with B. quintana occurs when an infected louse defecates while feeding on a human.
When the person scratches, the feces (which are full of bacteria) are rubbed into the tiny wound.
Symptoms of trench fever begin about 2 weeks to a month after exposure to the bacteria.
Sudden fever, loss of energy, dizziness, headache, weight loss, skin rash, severe muscle and bone pain can occur.
Pain is particularly severe in the shins, leading to the nickname "shin bone fever.
The fever can reach 105F (40.5C) and stays high for five to six days at a time.
The temperature then drops, and stays down for several days, usually recurring in five- to six-day cycles.
An individual may experience as many as eight cycles of fever with the illness.
The level of serum 1,25-dihydroxy-vitamin D is not usually used to determine vitamin D status because it has a short half-life of 15 hours and is tightly regulated by parathyroid hormone, calcium, and phosphate, such that it does not decrease significantly until vitamin D deficiency is already well advanced
A mold, which may result in allergy symptoms in sensitised individuals.
Anecdotal evidence suggests that Aspergillus terreus may induce symptoms of hypersensitivity, including asthma, allergic alveolitis and hypersensitivity pneumonitis in sensitised individuals.
However, few studies have been reported to date; it is possible that the allergy occurs more frequently than has been reported.
A. terreus has been recognised as a cause of allergic bronchopulmonary aspergillosis.
Cortisone is a downstream metabolite of cortisol.
11-beta-hydroxy steroid dehydrogenase type 2 (11-beta HSD2) converts cortisol to cortisone.
Like cortisol, cortisone has an important circadian rhythm where amounts peak in the morning and reach the lowest level late at night.
Levels of cortisone, including urinary-free cortinsone, are useful in the diagnosis for acquired or inherited adrenal disorders due to a deficiency of 11-beta HSD enzymes and a non-functioning hypothalamus-pituitary-adrenal axis.
Penfluridol (Semap, Micefal, Longoperidol) is a long-acting antipsychotic drug used for maintenance or long-term therapy of chronic schizophrenia and similar psychotic disorders.
Blood levels are measured for therapeutic drug monitoring.
Mutton is regarded as a weak allergen and preparations of lamb meat have been suggested as an alternative to hydrolyzed cow's milk formulas
Calcium cyanamide or CaCN2 is a calcium compound used as fertiliser, first synthesized in 1898 by Adolph Frank and Nikodem Carol.
It is formed when calcium carbide reacts with nitrogen.
It is commercially known as Nitrolim.
Estrone sulfate is a sulfated estrone.
It has been described as a prognosis indicator for prostate cancer.
It is a component of Premarin.
The LAMA3 gene (laminin subunit alpha 3) is located on chromosome 18q11.2.
The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the laminin family of secreted molecules.
Laminins are heterotrimeric molecules that consist of alpha, beta, and gamma subunits that assemble through a coiled-coil domain.
Laminins are essential for formation and function of the basement membrane and have additional functions in regulating cell migration and mechanical signal transduction.
This gene encodes an alpha subunit and is responsive to several epithelial-mesenchymal regulators including keratinocyte growth factor, epidermal growth factor and insulin-like growth factor.
Mutations in this gene have been identified as the cause of Herlitz type junctional epidermolysis bullosa and laryngoonychocutaneous syndrome.
Alternative splicing and alternative promoter usage result in multiple transcript variants.
Eosinophil granulocytes, commonly referred to as eosinophils (from 'eosin (or acid)-loving' cells, hence the name) are white blood cells that appear brick-red when stained with eosin using the Romanowsky method.
The red color is visible as small granules within the cellular cytoplasm.
These granules contain histamine and proteins such as eosinophil peroxidase, RNase, DNases, lipase, plasminogen, and Major Basic Protein that are toxic to both pathogens and the host's tissues.
Eosinophils persist in the circulation for 6-12 hours, and survive in the tissues for another 2-3 days if they aren't further stimulated.
Eosinophils make up about 2.3% of the all white blood cells, and are about 10-12 micrometers in size.
A key mediator in eosinophil activation is interleukin 5.
The c.35delG mutation in the GJB2 gene is associated with autosomal recessive deafness Type 1A and digenic deafness.
Approximately 50% of cases of autosomal recessive non-syndromic deafness are cause by mutations in the GJB2 gene, with 35delG being the most common.
Patients who are heterozygous for mutations in the GJB2 genes have been found to also have a mutation in another gene locus, such as GJB6 or GJB3.
Pollachius virens is a species of marine fish in the Pollachius genus.
1,5-Anhydroglucitol (1,5-AG) is a metabolically inert polyol that is used as a marker of short- to intermediate-term glycemic control in patients with moderate- to well-controlled diabetes.
When blood glucose increases beyond the renal threshold of 180 mg/dL, 1,5-AG levels decrease due to competition with glucose for renal absorption.
Because the blood level of 1.5-AG inversely fluctuates so closely with the blood level of glucose, 1,5-AG is more accurate in detecting short-term blood sugar fluctuations than either HbA1c or fructosamine.
Insulin-like growth factor 2 (IGF-2) is one of three protein hormones that share structural similarity to insulin.
It is sometimes produced in non-islet cell tumours, causing hypoglycemia (Doege-Potter syndrome).
Loss of imprinting of IGF2 is a common feature in tumours seen in Beckwith-Wiedeman syndrome.
The Duffy glycoprotein is a receptor that binds cytokines released during inflammation.
It also binds the malaria parasite Plasmodium vivax, and RBCs that lack the Duffy Fy^a and Fy^b antigens are resistant to invasion.
Structurally, the Duffy protein is similar to the family of G-protein coupled receptors, having 7 transmembrane domains.
FY has two major codominant alleles, FYA and FYB, which result from a SNP (125G→A), and the corresponding Fy^a and Fy^b antigens differ by a single amino acid (G42D).
Individuals who are homozygous for a -33T→C SNP in the erythroid promoter region of the FYB allele have the phenotype Fy(a-b-) and do not express Duffy antigens on their RBCs.
Beck L, Blood groups and red cell antigens. .
Methylsuccinic acid is a normal metabolite found in human fluids.
Increased urinary levels of Methylsuccinic acid (together with ethylmalonic acid) are the main biochemical measurable features in ethylmalonic encephalopathy, a rare metabolic disorder with an autosomal recessive mode of inheritance that is clinically characterized by neuromotor delay, hyperlactic acidemia, recurrent petechiae, orthostatic acrocyanosis, and chronic diarrhea.
The circulating form of a major C19 steroid produced primarily by the adrenal cortex.
DHEA sulfate serves as a precursor for testosterone, androstenedione, estradiol, and estrone.
The largest class of organic compounds, including STARCH; GLYCOGEN; CELLULOSE; POLYSACCHARIDES; and simple MONOSACCHARIDES.
Carbohydrates are composed of carbon, hydrogen, and oxygen in a ratio of Cn(H2O)n.
Isocitric acid is a protonated form of isocitrate, which is a substrate of the citric acid cycle.
Isocitrate is formed from citrate with the help of the enzyme aconitase, and is acted upon by isocitrate dehydrogenase.
Salts and esters of isocitric acid are known as isocitrates.
Isocitric acid is commonly used as a marker to detect the authenticity and quality of fruit products, most often citrus juices.
In authentic orange juice, for example, the ratio of citric acid to D-isocitric acid is usually less than 130.
An isocitric acid value higher than this may be indicative of fruit juice adulteration.
Adrenoceptor Alpha 2A (ADRA2A) gene is a protein coding gene that encodes for receptors distributed within the central nervous system and periphery.
Studies have shown the a variant within the ADRA2A gene, c.-1252G>C (rs1800544), is associated with the effectiveness of methylphenidate (Ritalin®)and dexmethylphenidate (Focalin®), medications used to treat symptoms of attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD).
Desacetylrifampin is an active metabolite of rifampin, an antibiotic used to treat various bacterial infections such as Mycobacterium tuberculosis.
Levels of rifampin and its metabolites are measured for therapeutic drug monitoring to ensure efficacy and avoid toxicity.
4-Hydroxyatomoxetine is the primary metabolite of atomoxetine.
Leukocyte aggregates are two or more leukocytes bound together by adhesion molecules.
Aggregation of leukocytes in vitro is a rare phenomenon and may result in pseudoleukopenia, a condition of temporary low white blood cell count experienced at the onset of an infection.
Moraxella (Branhamella) catarrhalis, previously known as Neisseria catarrhalis or Micrococcus catarrhalis, is a gram-negative, aerobic diplococcus frequently found in the respiratory tract.
M. catarrhalis may cause a variety of illnesses, ranging from sinusitis, otitis media, lower respiratory tract infections, in adultsconjunctivitis and keratitis in children, to laryngitis, bronchitis, pneumonia and lower respiratory tract infections, particularly in those with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD).
A combination of serological and conventional microbiological studies is used to confirm infection by M. catarrhalis.
Up to 75% of children carry M. catarrhalis, while carriage rates in adults is extremely low (1-3%).
Protonitazene is a new, potent synthetic opioid bearing structural resemblance to etonitazene, a synthetic opioid that is nationally and internationally controlled.
Protonitazene is dissimilar in structure to synthetic opioids typically encountered in forensic casework (e.g., fentanyl, heroin); however, protonitazene is a structural isomer of isotonitazene, requiring increased analytical specificity during toxicological analysis.
In most patients with erythropoietic protoporphyria (EPP), a pathogenic FECH mutation that reduces enzyme activity by 50% can be identified on only 1 allele.
Clinical expression of EPP typically requires a hypomorphic (low expression) FECH allele (IVS3-48T->C) in trans (on a different chromosome) with the mutation.
IVS3-48T->C is a variant of the FECH gene associated with reduced gene expression.
This variant is found in approximately 10% of the general Caucasian population.
Autosomal recessive inheritance (2 pathogenic mutations in trans) is infrequent, accounting for <4% of EPP cases.
In contrast to patients with 1 pathogenic mutation and the low-expression allele, missense mutations are far more common than null mutations.
Percent premutation is one of the tests ordered after more conventional Fragile X testing is positive.
Mutation of the FMR1 gene which results in mental retardation mostly involve expansion of CGG repeats in the 5' untranslated region.
Normally there are about 30 repeats, the full mutation generally involves over 200 repeats.
Individuals may also have "premutation" with 55-200 repeats.
The premutation state can be associated with certain disorders, and can potentially expand when passed to offspring, especially when passed by females.
Mosaics with some cells having full mutation and some cells having premuation are common.
The percent premuation is calculated as follows from band intensities on a Southern blot: (unmethylated premuation band intensity, generally 3.0k) / (sum of intensities of the unmethylated premutation band + full mutation bands).
Detects sequence variations in the Transthyretin gene used in detection of Familial Amyloid Cardiomyopathy and Familial Amyloid Polyneuropathy.
CD30, also known as TNFRSF8, is a cell membrane protein of the tumor necrosis factor receptor family and tumor marker.
This receptor is expressed by activated, but not by resting, T and B cells.
TRAF2 and TRAF5 can interact with this receptor, and mediate the signal transduction that leads to the activation of NF-kappaB.
It is a positive regulator of apoptosis, and also has been shown to limit the proliferative potential of autoreactive CD8 effector T cells and protect the body against autoimmunity.
Two alternatively spliced transcript variants of this gene encoding distinct isoforms have been reported.
CD30 is associated with anaplastic large cell lymphoma.
It is expressed in embryonal carcinoma but not in seminoma and is thus is a useful marker in distinguishing between these germ cell tumors.
The GFAP gene (glial fibrillary acidic protein) is located on chromosome 17q21.
This gene encodes one of the major intermediate filament proteins of mature astrocytes.
It is used as a marker to distinguish astrocytes from other glial cells during development.
Mutations in this gene cause Alexander disease, a rare disorder of astrocytes in the central nervous system.
Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms.
The T-cell receptor (TCR) is a cell-surface receptor that is composed of two polypeptide chains that are linked by a disulfide bond.
In peripheral T-cells, approximately 85% of TCR consist of an alpha and beta chain, while the rest have gamma and delta.
TCRs have multiple domains including constant (C), variable (V), joining (J) and diversity (D) domains.
The TCR beta gene locus (TRB) is located on chromosome 7q34 and includes nearly 70 V genes that are grouped into families ("TRBV families") based upon greater than 75% nucleotide sequence identity.
During T-cell development in the thymus, V, D, and J segments undergo somatic rearrangement to form complete V domain exons that are responsible for antigen recognition.
The diversity of the T-cell repertoire depends on recombination as well as nucleotide insertion and deletion at junctional sites (V-J, D-J, and V-D).
Although nearly 70 TRBV gene segments have been identified, studies have shown that the total number of functional TRBV gene segments expressed by a healthy individual varies from 42 to 47 due to 7 frequently occurring inactivating polymorphisms and a large insertion/deletion-related polymorphism encompassing 2 TRBV gene segments.
TRBV repertoire analysis is used to determine the number of gene segments and their relative frequency as expressed by an individual.
The total number of gene segments present is identified based on various techniques including fragment length analysis, and specific probes are used to identify a common set of gene segments.
From these data, the diversity ratio is calculated as the relative number of gene segments from a particular gene family compared to the total.
Because some portion of gene segments that are counted in the total will not correspond to any of the probes and therefore will not be identified as belonging to a specific TRBV gene family, the total of the diversity ratios reported will not equal 100%.
Analysis of the TRBV repertoire, including the number of gene families present and their relative proportions can be used to evaluate primary immunodeficiencies, monitor immune reconstitution after hematopoietic steam cell transplantation, and assess temporal repertoire changes in autoimmune diseases and viral infections.
An enzyme of the transferase class that catalyzes the conversion of sedoheptulose 7-phosphate and D-glyceraldehyde 3-phosphate to D-ribose 5-phosphate and D-xylulose 5-phosphate in the PENTOSE PHOSPHATE PATHWAY.
The Mediterranean Flour Moth, Indian Flour Moth or Mill Moth (Ephestia kuehniella) is a moth of the family Pyralidae.
It is a common pest of dry plant produce - especially cereals - and found around the world.
Salmonella are gram-negative, flagellated, facultative intracellular, anaerobic bacilli with O, H and Vi surface antigens.
Once ingested, Salmonella survives the gastric acid barrier and penetrates the epithelial cells of the small and large intestines.
The invasion of the epithelial cells stimulates the release of cytokines and a subsequent inflammatory response leading to diarrhea and possible ulceration of the mucosa.
Antibodies to Salmonella are the body's defense when the bacteria is outside of its host cell which occurs at the initial infection and when the bacillus moves from cell to cell.
There is a 10 minute window of opportunity when the Salmonella bacillus leaves the macrophage to invade another.
During that time, antibodies and complement work to eradicate the bacilli, but some of the extracellular bacilli will evade attack and enter another host cell.
Studies have shown that vaccines play an important role in the fight against typhoid fever.
There are two species of Salmonella: S. enterica and S. bongori.
These species can be further subclassified into subspecies and serovars.
Veterinary Medicine: Salmonella infection is most often caused by the serovars Salmonella choleraesuis, and Salmonella typhimurium and less often by Salmonella derby.
Infected pigs can be asymptomatic and become carriers of S. choleraesius.
Typically, the bacteria survive in the mesenteric lymph nodes that drain into the intestines, and are not shed in the feces unless the pig is under stress.
The carrier state lasts for weeks to months and is self-limiting.
Severe infection with S. choleraesius can be serious starting out as septicemia and progressing to pneumonia and enteritis.
The infection can spread to various tissues including to the central nervous system leading to meningitis and to the joints where it manifests as arthritis.
Severe infections with S. choleraesius occurs at any age, but most often in pigs 12-14 weeks of age.
Kyphoplasty is a variation of a vertebroplasty that attempts to stop the pain caused by the bone fracture and attempts to restore the height and angle of kyphosis of a fractured vertebra (of certain types), followed by its stabilization using injected bone cement.
The procedure typically includes the use of a small balloon that is inflated in the vertebral body to create a void within the cancellous bone prior to cement delivery.
Once the void is created, the procedure continues in a similar manner as a vertebroplasty, but the bone cement is typically delivered directly into the newly created void.
Exchange of nutrients and waste between the fetal and maternal blood occurs via the PLACENTA.
The cord blood is blood contained in the umbilical vessels (UMBILICAL CORD) at the time of delivery.
Curvularia is a facultative pathogen and may cause leaf spots and seedling blight.
It is also seen on castor beans, cotton, rice, barley, wheat, and corn.
Curvularia is a mold which is associated with allergy in the literature and frequently reported in mold spore counts.
Insulin is a hormone secreted by the islet cells of the pancreas when an increase in blood glucose is detected.
Insulin attaches to the insulin receptors on the surface of most of the cells.
When insulin binds its receptor, other receptors are activated so that glucose is taken up by the cells.
Intracellular glucose is used as a source of energy.
The COX10 gene (COX10 heme A:farnesyltransferase cytochrome c oxidase assembly factor) is located on chromosome 17p12.
Cytochrome c oxidase (COX), the terminal component of the mitochondrial respiratory chain, catalyzes the electron transfer from reduced cytochrome c to oxygen.
This component is a heteromeric complex consisting of 3 catalytic subunits encoded by mitochondrial genes and multiple structural subunits encoded by nuclear genes.
The mitochondrially-encoded subunits function in electron transfer, and the nuclear-encoded subunits may function in the regulation and assembly of the complex.
This nuclear gene encodes heme A:farnesyltransferase, which is not a structural subunit but required for the expression of functional COX and functions in the maturation of the heme A prosthetic group of COX.
This protein is predicted to contain 7-9 transmembrane domains localized in the mitochondrial inner membrane.
A gene mutation, which results in the substitution of a lysine for an asparagine (N204K), is identified to be responsible for cytochrome c oxidase deficiency.
In addition, this gene is disrupted in patients with CMT1A (Charcot-Marie-Tooth type 1A) duplication and with HNPP (hereditary neuropathy with liability to pressure palsies) deletion.
The SNCA gene (synuclein, alpha (non A4 component of amyloid precursor)) is located on chromosome 4q21.
Alpha-synuclein is a member of the synuclein family, which also includes beta- and gamma-synuclein.
Synucleins are abundantly expressed in the brain and alpha- and beta-synuclein inhibit phospholipase D2 selectively.
SNCA may serve to integrate presynaptic signaling and membrane trafficking.
Defects in SNCA have been implicated in the pathogenesis of Parkinson disease.
SNCA peptides are a major component of amyloid plaques in the brains of patients with Alzheimer's disease.
Four alternatively spliced transcripts encoding two different isoforms have been identified for this gene.
Emtricitabine (FTC), with trade name Emtriva (formerly Coviracil), is a nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitor (NRTI) for the treatment of HIV infection in adults and children.
Free thyroxine index (FT4I, FTI) is calculated from total hormone (TT4) and any one of the thyroid hormone uptakes - see LOINCs 3050-2 (Triiodothyronine resin uptake, T3RU), 74794-9 (Thyroid hormone binding ratio, THBR), 74793-1 (Classic T-uptake), and 74795-6 (Total thyroxine binding capacity).
It adjusts total hormone levels for the number of binding sites to provide a better picture of thyroid status than total hormone levels.
Results may vary depending on which T-uptake is used.
If that level of distinction is important, users should look to the associated T-uptake code.
However, little reason exists to depend on a Free T4 index today now that Free T4 measures are widely available, accurate and more economical than measuring a T-uptake and a TT4.
The amount of grain-based foods consumed, where a serving is the amount of that food customarily considered a serving.
Matrix metallopeptidase 9 (gelatinase B, 92kDa gelatinase, 92kDa type IV collagenase), also known as MMP9, is an enzyme which in humans is encoded by the MMP9 gene.
The Red mulberry (M. rubra), closely related to the Mulberry or White mulberry tree (M. alba), is native to eastern North America, from southernmost Ontario and Vermont south to southern Florida and west to southeast South Dakota and central Texas.
Mulberry tree was reported to induce severe hayfever, but asthma was not reported.
Anecdotal evidence suggests that asthma and hayfever are possible following exposure to pollen from this tree; however, no specific studies have been reported to date.
Hurler syndrome, also known as mucopolysaccharidosis type I (MPS I), Hurler's disease or gargoylism, is a genetic disorder that results in the buildup of mucopolysaccharides due to a deficiency of alpha-L iduronidase, an enzyme responsible for the degradation of mucopolysaccharides in lysosomes.
Without this enzyme, a buildup of heparan sulfate and dermatan sulfate occurs in the body.
Symptoms appear during childhood and early death can occur due to organ damage.
Feline immunodeficiency virus (FIV) is a lentivirus that affects domesticated housecats worldwide and is the causative agent of feline AIDS.
From 2.5% up to 44% of cats worldwide, and about 2.5% of cats in the USA, are infected with FIV.
FIV differs taxonomically from two other feline retroviruses, feline leukemia virus (FeLV) and feline foamy virus (FFV), and is more closely related to human immunodeficiency virus HIV.
Within FIV, five subtypes have been identified based on nucleotide sequence differences coding for the viral envelope (env) or polymerase (pol).
FIV is the only non-primate lentivirus to cause an AIDS-like syndrome, but FIV is not typically fatal for cats, as they can live relatively healthily as carriers and transmitters of the disease for many years.
A vaccine is available although its efficacy remains uncertain, and cats will test positive for FIV antibodies after vaccination.
A class of lipoproteins that carry dietary cholesterol and triglycerides from the small intestines to the tissues.
Boron is a chemical element with atomic number 5 and the chemical symbol
B. A trivalent metalloid element, boron occurs abundantly in the ore borax.
Boron is never found free in nature.
Several allotropes of boron exist; amorphous boron is a brown powder, though metallic (crystalline) boron is black, hard (9.3 on Mohs' scale), and a weak conductor at room temperature.
Elemental boron is used as a dopant in the semiconductor industry, while boron compounds play important roles as light structural materals, nontoxic insecticides and preservatives, and reagents for chemical synthesis.
Boron is an essential plant nutrient, and as an ultratrace mineral is necessary for the optimal health of animals, though its physiological role in animals is poorly understood.
Elemental boron, boron oxide, boric acid, borates, and many organoboron compounds are nontoxic to humans and animals (with toxicity similar to that of table salt).
A parasitic hemoflagellate of the subgenus Leishmania leishmania that infects man and animals and causes visceral leishmaniasis (LEISHMANIASIS, VISCERAL).
The sandfly genera Phlebotomus and Lutzomyia are the vectors.
Monoethyl methylphosphonate (Russian VX acid) a metabolite of the Russian variant (RVX) of the chemical warfare nerve agent VX.
VX is a human-made, odorless, and tasteless chemical warfare agent classified as a nerve agent.
Nerve agents are the most toxic and rapidly acting of the known chemical warfare agents, and are similar to organophosphate pesticides in terms of how they work and what kinds of harmful effects they cause-but much more potent.
VX is the most potent of all nerve agents.
Compared with the nerve agent sarin, VX is considered to be much more toxic by entry through the skin and somewhat more toxic by inhalation.
VX is not found naturally in the environment and the only known use of VX is chemical warfare.
Mild or moderately exposed people usually recover completely.
Severely exposed people are not likely to survive.
Mexiletine hydrochloride (also known as Mexitil) is indicated for treatment of documented arrhythmias, such as sustained ventricular tachycardia, that are life treatening.
Mexiletine is a Class 1B antiarrhythmic compound with electrophysiologic properties similar to lidocaine, but orally active.
It is dissimilar from quinidine, procainamide, and disopyramide.
Methyl iodide, also called iodomethane, and commonly abbreviated "MeI", is the chemical compound with the formula CH3I. This dense volatile liquid is related to methane by replacement of one hydrogen atom by an atom of iodine.
Its dipole moment is 1.59 D, and its refractive index is 1.5304 (20 °C, D), 1.5293 (21 °C, D).
Methyl iodide is miscible with common organic solvents.
It is colorless, although upon exposure to light, samples develop a purplish tinge caused by the presence of I2.
Storage over copper metal absorbs the iodine.
Methyl iodide is widely used in organic synthesis to deliver a methyl group, via the transformation called methylation.
It is naturally emitted by rice plantations in small amounts.
It is also used as a pesticide.
A triage acuity system that has five levels, (for example, 1-resuscitation, 2- emergent, 3- urgent, 4- less urgent, 5- nonurgent).
Ragocytes, or RA cells, are located in inflammatory synovial fluid and associated with rheumatoid arthritis.
They are leukocytes containing small cytoplasmic inclusions and, at times, immunoglobulins and rheumatoid factor.
Ragocytes are also found in patients with tuberculosis.
Transthyretin (TTR) (originally called prealbumin or thyroxine-binding prealbumin) is a homotetrameric unglycosylated tryptophan rich protein that carries the thyroid hormones T3 and T4, and retinol in serum and CSF.
Synthesized in hepatocytes, TTR and has a molar mass of 55000 daltons.
At a pH of 8.6, an electrophoretic band appears prior to albumin in a relative amount of < 2.5 % due to its greater rate of diffusion to the anode.
Its function is to bind and transport low molecular weight retinol-binding proteins, preventing their glomerular filtration.
30 50 % of circulating TTR is complexed by retinol-binding protein.
Additionally, it binds and transports thyroxine (T4), nevertheless its affinity to this hormone is less than that of thyroxine binding globulin.
TTR is decreased in hepatocellular synthesis caused by acute liver damage, or dietary protein deficiency, and because of its short half life (approximately 2 days) is used as a surrogate marker of nutritional status.
TTR is also a negative acute phase reactive protein and levels decrease in inflammatory states.
Levels can be elevated in chronic renal failure, high concentrations of corticosteroids, and Hodgkin's disease.
TTR misfolding and aggregation is known to be associated with the amyloid diseases, senile systemic amyloidosis (SSA), familial amyloid polyneuropathy (FAP), and familial amyloid cardiomyopathy (FAC)
YKL-40 is an early diagnostic and prognostic biomarker for ovarian, colorectal and other cancers as well as rheumatoid arthritis and similar debilitating diseases.
The type of work done by the subject during his or her working life.
Lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) is an enzyme present in a wide variety of organisms, including plants and animals.
It catalyses the interconversion of pyruvate and lactate with concomitant interconversion of NADH and NAD+.
As it can also catalyze the oxidation of hydroxybutyrate, it is occasionally called hydroxybutyrate dehydrogenase (HBD).
The physiologically active form of vitamin D. It is formed primarily in the kidney by enzymatic hydroxylation of 25-hydroxycholecalciferol (calcifediol).
Its production is stimulated by low blood calcium levels and parathyroid hormone.
Calcitriol increases intestinal absorption of calcium and phosphorus, and in concert with parathyroid hormone increases bone resorption.
Antibiotic substance produced by Streptomyces garyphalus.
Ceforanide is a second-generation cephalosporin antibiotic.
Direct or indirect contact with animal allergens frequently causes sensitisation.
Animal allergens are major components of farm, home and animal laboratory dust.
Asthma, occupational asthma, allergic rhinitis (2-3) and Swine Breeder's Lung, a form of exogenous allergic alveolitis (4) may occur in Swine/Pig breeders following exposure to Swine epithelium, Swine serum albumin and Swine urine proteins.
Candida auris is a fungus that was first identified in 2009 in Japan and can cause serious infections in the blood, spinal fluid, and internal organs.
This emerging fungus has spread quickly and infections have been documented all over the world.
C auris is difficult to identify with the currently available phenotypic methods used by laboratories, and can be misidentified as other species of yeast.
It is often resistant to multiple drugs, though resistance can differ broadly across isolates.
There are currently no established breakpoints to determine susceptibility, so laboratories have relied on the breakpoints of closely related Candida species or the opinion of experts in mycology.
In the United States, C auris is resistant to fluconazole in 90% of infections, to amphotericin B in 30% of infections, and to echinocandins in 5% of infections.
Patients at highest risk of infection are those that have been hospitalized for a long time, those with indwelling catheters, and those who have been previously treated with antibiotic or antifungal medication.
Symptoms of invasive infection include fever and chills that do not resolve after treatment with antibiotics.
The prostate cancer grade group is based on the 2 values from the Gleason scoring system, but provides what has been suggested to be a simpler and more accurate stratification.
The redefined 5 "grade groups" may have the potential to reduce overtreatment of prostate cancer.
The grade group system has a lowest grade of 1 (instead of 6 for Gleason score), and distinguishes the Gleason scores 3+4=7 and 4+3=7 as 2 separate grades.
N-tau methylimidazoleacetate (N-tau MIAA) is the primary urinary metabolite of histamine.
Increases in N-tau MIAA excretion is associated with systemic mastocytosis, a rare disorder caused by the presence of too many mast cells (mastocytes) and CD34+ mast cell precursors.
Because mast cells play a role in allergic reactions, the symptoms of mastocytosis often are similar to the symptoms of an allergic reaction and include fatigue, skin lesions and itching, diarrhea, food and drug intolerance, and anaphylaxis.
The amino terminals of type III procollagen peptide (P3NP) are extensions at the ends of the type III procollagen that are cleaved during synthesis and degradation of type III procollagen to make type III collagen.
P3NP are released into extracellular fluid and a marker for collagen turnover.
Increased levels of P3NP occur in conditions with excessive connective tissue repair, such as fibrosis, malignant and blood-related diseases.
Influenza virus C is a genus in the virus family Orthomyxoviridae, which includes those viruses which cause influenza.
The only species in this genus is called "Influenza C virus".
Influenza C viruses are known to infect humans and pigs, giving them influenza.
Flu due to the type C species is rare compared to types A or B, but can be severe and can cause local epidemics.
Squid are popular in cuisines as widely separated as Korean and Italian.
Hypersensitivity to Squid may induce symptoms of food allergy in sensitised individuals.
Central hypopnea is an airflow reduction, with no paradoxical breathing, snoring, or inspiratory flattening.
In general, the CD45RO marker is associated with the memory phenotype - T cells capable of rapid response to in vitro antigen stimulation, while CD45RA is a marker associated with naive T cells (antigen-inexperienced).
A yellow metallic element with the atomic symbol Au, atomic number 79, and atomic weight 197.
It is used in jewelry, goldplating of other metals, as currency, and in dental restoration.
Many of its clinical applications, such as ANTIRHEUMATIC AGENTS, are in the form of its salts.
Bartonella henselae is a fastidious gram negative rod bacteria and the causative agent in most cases of Cat Scratch Disease.
Humans are most often infected through a bite or scratch from a cat.
Presence of bartonella henselae DNA is best detected through a combination of polymerase chain reaction (PCR) in and indirect immunofluorescence assay (IFA) is used in serologic studies.
A deficiency of norepinephrine and epinephrine that causes orthostatic hypotension, nasal stuffiness, and droopy eyelids (ptosis) among other symptoms.
Some people refer to this as norepinephrine deficiency.
It is caused by largely increased amounts of serum dopamine and release of dopamine in place of norepinephrine.
It is difficult for people with this to stand still for longer than one minute.
Another symptom is hypoglycemia which is thought to be caused by adrenomedullary failure and the T-wave abnormalities from failure of noradrenergic control.
Also, prolactin is frequently suppressed by excessive dopamine.
This can also have an impact on digestion.
People with dopamine beta hydroxylase deficiency may have a paradoxical response to NRI antidepressant medication such as Edronax -- they may experience more depression, less energy, and become more sleepy.
This is a form of dysautonomia but differentiated from familial dysautonomia by lack of familial dysautonomic symptoms such as loss of sense of pain and smell.
25 OH (hydroxy) Vit (Vitamin) D3, known as cholecalciferol and calciol, is derived from animal sources.
Vitamin D3 inhibits lipid peroxidation in rat hepatocytes in vivo, iron-dependent lipid peroxidation in liposomes and modulates cellular antioxidant defense in lymphoma-bearing mice.
The mechanism of the antioxidant effect of vitamin D is unknown.
There is some evidence that vitamin D may affect brain serotonin levels.
A section to capture the company name and the most recent version number, for standardizing risk evaluation and mitigation strategies (REMS) information for inclusion into pharmacy systems.
Ochratoxin A (OTA) is a myotoxin produced by Aspergillus and Penicillium fungi.
It is frequent contaminant of almost all types of foods but particularly pre-harvest grains as well as meats, peanuts, coffee, and dried grapes.
Most people have measurable blood levels of OTA, but when overexposed it is known to be carcinogenic, neurotoxic, immunosuppressant, and immunotoxic.
Alpha-synuclein also known as SNCA is a protein that, in humans, is encoded by the SNCA gene.
An alpha-synuclein fragment, known as the non-Abeta component (NAC) of Alzheimer's disease amyloid, originally found in an amyloid-enriched fraction, is shown to be a fragment of its precursor protein, NACP, by cloning of the full-length cDNA.
Later, NACP turned out to be a human homologue of Torpedo synuclein.
Therefore, NACP is also referred to as human alpha-synuclein.
Normally an unstructured soluble protein, alpha-synuclein can aggregate to form insoluble fibrils in pathological conditions characterized by Lewy bodies, such as Parkinson's disease, dementia with Lewy bodies and multiple system atrophy.
These disorders are known as synucleinopathies.
Alpha-synuclein is the primary structural component of Lewy body fibrils.
Occasionally, Lewy bodies contain tau protein, however, alpha-synuclein and tau constitute two distinctive subsets of filaments in the same inclusion bodies.
Alpha-synuclein pathology is also found in both sporadic and familial cases with Alzheimer's disease.
Anion Gap 3 is the difference between the serum sodium and the sum of the serum bicarbonate and chloride.
An increased gap indicates the presence of an unmeasured anion.
The type of bed used for an infant in the neonatal intensive care unit or newborn nursery.
A radiant warmer is an open bed, an incubator is a closed bed, and an incubator that can serve as a radiant warmer is a combination bed.
A genus of mitosporic fungi containing about 100 species and eleven different teleomorphs in the family Trichocomaceae.
The superior angle between the line Nasion-Subspinale (A point) and the line A point-Pogonion
The heater power is the amount of heating energy that is delivered.
Autoimmune lymphoproliferative syndrome (ALPS) is a disorder that occurs when a mutation in the FAS gene prevents the normal death cycle of the lymphocytic white blood cells.
The abnormal accumulation of non-malignant lymphocytes can lead to splenomegaly, lymphadenopathy, an increased risk of malignancy, and an autoimmune cytopenia resulting in anemia and thrombocytopenia.
In ALPS there is an increase in the CD4- CD8- TCR alpha beta+ T cells, FAS ligand (FAS-L), and IL-10 protein.
CD4-CD8- T cells are also known as double negative T cells (DNT).
The expression of an atypical isoform of CD45 called CD45R (also known as B220) on CD4-CD8-TCR alpha beta+ T cells is sensitive and specific for ALPS.
Oxyphenisatin is used for detection of laxative abuse.
6-Mercaptopurine (6-MP) is used in treatment of inflammatory bowel disease.
The effects of 6-mercaptopurine (6-MP) are mediated via its intracellular conversion (RBC) to 6-thioguanine (6-TG) and 6-methylmercaptopurine (6-MMP) nucleotide metabolites, the latter genetically controlled by thipurine methyltransferase (TPMT).
This assay measures level of 6-MMP which has been shown to correlate with therapeutic response and potential toxicities.
Dichlorvos is colorless to amber liquid with a mild chemical odor that is used as an insecticide in households, for public health, and in stored products.
It is an organophosphate and cholinesterase inhibitor that is used to treat mushroom flies, aphids, spider mites, caterpillars, thrips, and white flies in greenhouses, outdoor fruit, and vegetable crops.
It is also used in dogs, livestock, and humans as a remedy against parasitic worm infections.
Dichlorvos is highly toxic if inhaled, absorbed through the skin or ingested.
The most common route of exposure is through inhalation.
Symptoms of poisoning by inhalation include bloody or runny nose, coughing, chest discomfort, difficult or short breath, and wheezing due to constriction or excess fluid in the bronchial tubes.
Domestic animals that have been treated with dichlorvos with a slow-release formula for internal parasites have exhibited symptoms of cholinesterase inhibition such as nausea or diarrhea.
The Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) has classified dichlorvos to be a mutagen and possible human carcinogen.
Dichlorvos is highly toxic to birds and bees but does not significantly bioaccumulate in fish.
Ultraviolet light increases the toxicity of dichlorvos in aquatic wildlife by 5-150 times.
Wheat is one of the major cereal grains belonging to the grass family (Poaceae or Gramineae) and is a staple food item in most diets worldwide.
Wheat is among the 6 most important food items accounting for hypersensitivity reactions in children.
Special adverse reactions to Wheat protein include: - Baker's asthma (an IgE-mediated reaction to inhaled flour from Wheat and other grains) - Coeliac disease, a non-IgE-mediated enteropathy caused by Wheat gliadin, and - Wheat-dependant exercise-induced asthma or anaphylaxis.
The onset of adverse reactions may be immediate, delayed, or both immediate and delayed.
Differences in the specific allergens, the routes of sensitisation, and the end-organ responsiveness have not been completely understood or elucidated.
Wheat hypersensitivity has been reported in both occupational and non-occupational settings and may occur to Wheat or Wheat flour.
Biphenyl (or diphenyl or phenyl benzene or 1,1'-biphenyl or lemonene) is a solid organic compound that forms colorless to yellowish crystals.
It has a distinctively pleasant smell.
Biphenyl is an aromatic hydrocarbon with a molecular formula C12 H10.
Uniparental disomy (UPD) occurs when an individual inherits two copies of a chromosome, or part of a chromosome, from one parent and no copies from the other parent.
UPD can be the result of heterodisomy, in which a pair of non-identical chromosomes are inherited from one parent (an earlier stage meiosis I error) or isodisomy, in which a single chromosome from one parent is duplicated (a later stage meiosis II error).
Because it may lead to the duplication of lethal recessive genes, isodisomy is potentially dangerous, while heterodisomy is essentially benign.
Conditions that occur due to UPD include Prader-Willi syndrome (chromosome 15), Angelman syndrome (chromosome 15), and Beckwith-Wiedemann syndrome (chromosome 11).
Chromosome 14 is also known to cause particular symptoms such as skeletal abnormalities, mental retardation and joint contractures among others.
Ox-eye daisy originated in Europe and northern Asia, and is now naturalised as a weed in North America, India, Japan, Australia and other parts of the world.
There are about 200 species of Daisy worldwide.
It may be grown for its beautiful flowers, but it is also a plague on pastures and crop fields across Europe.
Ox-Eye daisy pollen induces asthma, allergic rhinitis, allergic conjunctivitis and urticaria, particularly as occupational allergies in individuals working with flowers
The enzyme catalyzing the formation of orotidine-5'-phosphoric acid (orotidylic acid) from orotic acid and 5-phosphoribosyl-1-pyrophosphate in the course of pyrimidine nucleotide biosynthesis. .
Staphylococcus haemolyticus is a member of the coagulase-negative staphylococci (CoNS).
It is part of the skin flora of humans, and its largest populations are usually found at the axillae, perineum, and inguinal areas.
Infections can be localized or systemic, and are often associated with the insertion of medical devices.
S. haemolyticus a difficult pathogen to treat due to its highly antibiotic resistant phenotype and ability to form biofilms.
Chromogranin A, a 439 amino acid protein with a molecular weight of 49 kilodaltons, is one of a variety of water-soluble glycoproteins distributed in the secretory granules of endocrine and neuroendocrine cells.
Serum CgA is an excellent marker for the diagnosis and management of patients with neuroendocrine tumors.
Cystoisospora belli (formerly known as Isospora belli) is a coccidian protozoan parasite which causes cystoisosporiasis (formerly known as isosporiasis), an intestinal disease of humans.
It is found worldwide, especially in tropical and subtropical regions.
Humans acquire infection occurs by ingesting sporocysts-containing oocysts which infect epithelial cells of the small intestine and then multiply asexually.
Fertilization results in the development of oocysts that are excreted in the stool.
The main symptom is acute, nonbloody diarrhea with crampy abdominal pain which can last for weeks and may result in malabsorption and weight loss.
Immunodepressed patients as well as infants and children may have severe diarrhea.
Unlike in other protozoan infections, eosinophilia may be present.
A 44-kDa extracellular signal-regulated MAP kinase that may play a role the initiation and regulation of MEIOSIS; MITOSIS; and postmitotic functions in differentiated cells.
It phosphorylates a number of TRANSCRIPTION FACTORS; and MICROTUBULE-ASSOCIATED PROTEINS.
The "Heart Disease Action Plan" is a communication tool medical providers use to inform school staff of a patient's Heart Disease diagnosis and treatment protocol.
School staff uses this information to guide and authorize their treatment of the child's ADHD/ADD while at school.
The following information is included in the action plan: 1.
Patient information: demographics, school, grade, parent/guardian, emergency contacts, primary care provider/clinic, 2.
Heart disease description: signs/symptoms, cardiac warning signs, last cardiac event, cardiac surgeries, 3. Special Equipment/activity restrictions, 4.
Preventative Measures: free text environmental control measures or dietary restrictions, 5.
Medication orders (type medication, dosage amount and time, side effects/instructions), 6. Emergency Response: free text description of a "cardiac emergency" for student, 7.
Cardiac Emergency Protocol: check list of actions, 8.
Emergency Medications: medication type, dosage & route, side effects/instructions, and 9.
Acknowledgement: Authorization for administration of medication away from clinic, provider signature and date, parent/guardian authorization: signatures and dates consenting school to give medications.
Tellurium is a chemical element in the periodic table that has the symbol Te and atomic number 52.
A brittle silver-white metalloid which looks like tin, tellurium is chemically related to selenium and sulfur.
This element is primarily used in alloys and as a semiconductor.
As the coarsely granular casts slowly pass on down the tubules, the cell degeneration continues until the granules are very fine.
Thus, finely granular casts show a further degeneration of granules that have become much smaller in size than the coarse type.
Since finely granular casts contain many minute granules, they are usually more opaque than simple hyaline casts.
They are grey to pale yellow in color.
U.S. Army Medical Department Center and School.
Methadone (also known as Symoron, Dolophine, Amidone, Methadose, Physeptone, Heptadon and many other names) is a synthetic opioid.
It is used medically as an analgesic and a maintenance anti-addictive and reductive preparation for use by patients with opioid dependency.
Because it is an acyclic analog of morphine, methadone acts on the same opioid receptors and thus has many of the same effects.
Methadone is also used in managing severe chronic pain.
Acetylcarnitine is a primary marker for Carnitine uptake defect.
Secondary marker for Short-chain L-3-hydroxy acyl-CoA dehydrogenase deficiency, Maternal carnitine uptake defect, Maternal 3-Methylcrotonyl-CoA carboxylase deficiency, Formiminoglutamic acidemia, and Succinyl-CoA ligase deficiency.
Mandelic acid is an aromatic alpha hydroxy acid with the molecular formula C8H8O3.
It is a white crystalline solid that is soluble in water and most common organic solvents.
Cryptosporidium parvum is a parasitic protozoa that infects humans and domestic mammals.
C. parvum (and a few other species) are the cause the disease called cryptosporidiosis, an acute watery diarrhea that is not bloody, and is sometimes accompanied by anorexia, nausea, vomiting, and abdominal pain.
The disease is self-limiting in healthy individuals, but can be severe in immunocompromised hosts.
Sex hormone binding globulin (SHBG) is a beta-globulin that transports testosterone, dihydrotestosterone (DHT), and estradiol in plasma.
Alterations in SHBG levels in certain diseases can result in measurements of testosterone that do not accurately reflect bioavailable levels.
Nicotine, a toxic alkaloid, is the prototypical agonist at nicotinic cholinergic receptors where it dramatically stimulates neurons and ultimately blocks synaptic transmission.
Nicotine is also important medically because of its presence in tobacco smoke.
A species of the fungus Cryptococcus, which causes cryptococcosis.
Its teleomorph is Filobasidiella neoformans.
Insulin-like growth factor-I levels are used to diagnose acromegaly, and to evaluate low thyroxine, low cortisol, high phos, high glucose levels.
Low levels seen in dwarfism.
Trypanosoma equiperdum is a protozoa that causes Dourine, or covering sickness, in horses and other animals in the family equidae.
Dimethylformamide is the organic compound with the formula (CH3)2NC(O)H. Commonly abbreviated DMF (though this acronym is sometimes used for dimethylfuran), this colorless liquid is miscible with water and the majority of organic liquids.
DMF is a common solvent for chemical reactions.
Pure dimethylformamide is odorless whereas technical grade or degraded dimethylformamide often has a fishy smell due to impurity of dimethylamine.
DMF has been linked to cancer in humans, and it is thought to cause birth defects
Acetone (also known as propanone, dimethyl ketone, 2-propanone, propan-2-one or β-Ketopropane) the simplest ketone, is a colorless, mobile, flammable liquid with melting point at 95.4°C and boiling point at 56.53°C.
An important solvent, it has a relative density of 0.819 (at 0°C) and is readily soluble in water, ethanol, ether, etc.
The most familiar household use of acetone is as the active ingredient in nail polish remover.
Acetone is also used to make plastic, fibers, drugs, and other chemicals.
Small amounts of acetone are produced in the body via decarboxylation of ketone bodies.
Certain dietary patterns, including prolonged fasting and high-fat low-carbohydrate dieting, or health conditions such as diabetes, can produce ketosis, thus forming acetone in body tissue.
Ketones can be evaluated due to toxicological causes such as ingestion of isopropanol leading to acetone production.
Acetone is not currently regarded as a carcinogen and is generally recognized to have low acute and chronic toxicity if ingested or inhaled, however at very high vapor concentrations acetone is irritating and may depress the central nervous system.
The protein CD80 (Cluster of Differentiation 80) is a molecule found on activated B cells and monocytes which provides a costimulatory signal necessary for T cell activation and survival.
It is also known as B7.1.
Its principal mode of action is by binding to CD28.
Along with CD86, these molecules provide the necessary stimuli to prime T cells against antigens presented by antigen-presenting cells.
CD80 and CD86 also bind to CTLA-4, a cell surface molecule expressed on activated T cells.
Interactions between CD80 or CD86 with CTLA-4 decrease the response of T cells.
Phenylpropanolamine (PPA; Accutrim), also known as the stereoisomers norephedrine and norpseudoephedrine, is a psychoactive drug of the phenethylamine and amphetamine chemical classes which is used as a stimulant, decongestant, and anorectic agent.
It is commonly used in prescription and over-the-counter cough and cold preparations.
Phenylpropanolamine is used to control urinary incontinence in dogs under trade names Propalin and Proin.
Central apnea is a reduction or absence of respiratory airflow without respiratory effort.
Entamoeba histolytica and Entamoeba dispar are a complex of two different but morphologically identical species.
E. dispar is non-invasive commensal in the intestine of humans.
E. histolytica is an invasive species assoicated with cell and tissue damage.
Methyl parathion is a white, crystalline solid organophosphate insecticide and acaricide.
It is used to control boll weevils and biting and sucking insects of agricultural crops.
Methyl parathion inhibits the enzymatic activity of cholinesterase which is required for the healthy functioning of the nervous system in humans, animals, and insects.
It is extremely toxic if inhaled or ingested and moderately toxic when absorbed by the skin.
Early symptoms of exposure to methyl parathion include bloody or runny nose, cough, chest discomfort, difficult or short breath, and wheezing due to constriction or excess fluid in the bronchial tubes.
After extreme exposure, symptoms can include involuntary defecation or urination, psychosis, irregular heartbeat, unconsciousness, convulsions, coma, and death due to respiratory failure or cardiac arrest.
Methyl parathion is a possible teratogen but not believed to be a carcinogen.
It is rapidly metabolized by plants and animals and is assumed not to persist or bioaccumulate in the environment.
Trace elements are needed by the body in very small amounts; many are essential for enzyme functioning.
This panel contains trace elements as measured in hair, examples including boron, chromium and copper.
Swiss cheese is a generic name common to many countries for several related varieties of cheese which resemble the Swiss Emmental.
Some types of Swiss cheese have a distinctive appearance, as the blocks of the cheese are riddled with holes known as "eyes".
Swiss cheese has a piquant, but not very sharp taste.
Three types of bacteria are used in the production of Emmental cheese: Streptococcus salivarius subsp.
thermophilus, Lactobacillus (L. helveticus or Lactobacillus delbrueckii subsp.
bulgaricus), and Propionibacter (P. freudenreichii or P. shermani).
In a late stage of cheese production, the Propionibacter consumes the lactic acid excreted by the other bacteria, and releases carbon dioxide gas, which slowly forms the bubbles that develop the eyes.
Swiss cheese without eyes is known as "blind.
Epicoccum nigrum is a species of fungus.
A plant pathogen, it is widespread fungus which produces colored pigments that can be used as antifungal agents against other pathogenic fungi.
Parkinsonia florida (Blue Palo Verde; syn. Cercidium floridum) is a species of palo verde native to the southwestern United States (southeastern California, southern Arizona) and northwestern Mexico (Sinaloa, Sonora, Baja California).
While it is possible to convert between osmolality and osmolarity, thereby deriving a more mathematically correct osmol gap calculation, in actual clinical practice this is not done.
This is because the difference in absolute value of these two measurements that can be attributed to the difference in units will be negligible in a clinical setting.
For this reason, the terms are often used interchangeably, though some object to equating the terms.
Because the calculated osmol gap can therefore be a conflation of both terms (depending on how it is derived), neither term (osmolal gap nor osmolar gap) may be semantically correct.
To avoid ambiguity, the terms "osmolal" and "osmolar" can be used when the units of molality or molarity are consistent throughout the calculation.
When this is not the case, the term "osmol gap" can be used when units are mixed to provide a clinical estimate.
Extra-neuronal catechol-o-methyl transferase (COMT) metabolite of the catecholamine epinephrine.
Measurement of plasma metanephrines is more sensitive (but may be less specific) than measurement of catecholamines for the detection of neuroblastoma and pheochromocytoma.
Creatine kinase (CK), also known as phosphocreatine kinase or creatine phosphokinase (CPK) is an enzyme expressed by various tissues.
It catalyzes the conversion of creatine to phosphocreatine, consuming adenosine triphosphate (ATP) and generating adenosine diphosphate (ADP).
In tissues that consume ATP rapidly, especially skeletal muscles, but also the brain and smooth muscles, creatine phosphate serves as an energy reservoir for the rapid regeneration of ATP, the major source of energy in biochemical reactions.
Cyclic Adenosine monophosphate differentiates pseudohypoparathyroidism from hypoparathyroidism and nephrogenic diabetes insipidus from hypothalamic diabetes insipidus.
A honeydew has a round to slightly oval shape, typically 15-22 cm (5.9-8.7 in) long.
It generally ranges in weight from 1.8 to 3.6 kg (4.0 to 7.9 lb).
The flesh is pale green in color, while the smooth peel ranges from greenish to yellow.
Like most fruit, honeydew has seeds.
Honeydew's thick, juicy, sweet flesh is often eaten for dessert, and is commonly found in supermarkets across the world.
This fruit grows best in semiarid climates and is harvested based on maturity, not size.
Maturity can be hard to judge, but is based upon ground color ranging from greenish white (immature) to creamy yellow (mature).
Quercus alba is a species of white oak that belongs to the white oak group, Quercus sect.
It is native to eastern North America, from southern Quebec west to eastern Minnesota, and south to northern Florida and eastern Texas.
Substances that dissociate into two or more ions, to some extent, in water.
Solutions of electrolytes thus conduct an electric current and can be decomposed by it (ELECTROLYSIS).
A central nervous system stimulant used most commonly in the treatment of attention-deficit disorders in children and for narcolepsy.
Its mechanisms appear to be similar to those of DEXTROAMPHETAMINE.
Intestinal goblet cells are simple columnar epithelial cells whose sole function is to secrete mucin, which dissolves in water to form mucus.
They are found scattered among the epithelial lining of the intestinal tract.
They are found inside the trachea, bronchus, and larger bronchioles in respiratory tract, small intestines, the colon, and conjunctiva in the upper eyelid.
They may be an indication of metaplasia, such as in Barrett's esophagus.
They are also associated with ulcerative colitis.
β2-Microglobulin (β2-M) is a low-molecular weight protein that is the light chain of the class I MHC (major histocompatibility complex) antigens.
Present in all nucleated cells and almost totally reabsorbed and catabolized by the proximal tubules, it is a marker of immune activation and proximal tubular function and found in nearly all body fluids.
Because it accumulates with renal dysfunction and deposits in tissues, β2-M is a cause of dialysis related amyloidosis.
Levels are also elevated in conditions such as chronic inflammation, liver disease, renal dysfunction, and some acute viral infections.
It is found in many hematological malignancies and thus a valuable treatment monitor and prognostic marker, particularly for multiple myeloma.
The amount of fluid from a drain inserted into the gastrointestinal tract.
The SMPD1 gene (sphingomyelin phosphodiesterase 1, acid lysosomal) is located on chromosome 11p15.4-p15.1.
The protein encoded by this gene is a lysosomal acid sphingomyelinase that converts sphingomyelin to ceramide.
The encoded protein also has phospholipase C activity.
Defects in this gene are a cause of Niemann-Pick disease type A (NPA) and Niemann-Pick disease type B (NPB).
Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been identified.
The PARK7 gene (parkinson protein 7) is located on chromosome 1p36.23.
The product of this gene belongs to the peptidase C56 family of proteins.
It acts as a positive regulator of androgen receptor-dependent transcription.
It may also function as a redox-sensitive chaperone, as a sensor for oxidative stress, and it apparently protects neurons against oxidative stress and cell death.
Defects in this gene are the cause of autosomal recessive early-onset Parkinson disease 7.
Two transcript variants encoding the same protein have been identified for this gene.
Methylmercury (sometimes methyl mercury) is an organometallic cation with the formula +.
It is a bioaccumulative environmental toxicant.
Alpha-methylacyl-CoA racemase is involved in the racemization of 2-methyl-branched fatty acid CoA esters and encoded by the AMACR gene.
Mutations in the AMACR gene cause alpha-methylacyl-CoA racemase deficiency (AMACRD), a rare autosomal recessive peroxisomal disorder.
Patients with AMACRD have variable neurodegenerative symptoms, including seizures, visual failure, sensorimotor neuropathy, spasticity, and migraines.
Human parainfluenza viruses (HPIVs) have been recognized as a cause of respiratory tract infections for many decades.
They belong to the Paramyxoviridae family, subfamily Paramyxovirinae, and are classified into 4 serotypes.
Serotype 4 can be further subdivided into 2 antigenic subtypes, HPIV-4A and HPIV-4B.
Ara h 8 is a Bet v 1-homologous panallergen.
Ara h 8 appears to have a low stability to roasting and no stability to gastric digestion.
Peanut allergy may be mediated in a subgroup of patients by means of cross-reaction of Bet v 1 induced antibodies with the homologous Peanut allergen Ara h 8.
LU18/LU19, also known as Au(a) and Au(b), belong to the Lutheran blood group system and are associated with the Lu glycoprotein.
The Lutheran system currently (as of 2016) consists of 20 antigens numbered LU1 to LU22 with two (LU10 and LU15) declared obsolete.
The LU18/LU19 polymorphism is an A1637 to G substitution in exon 12 of the BCAM (LU) gene encoding a Thr539 (LU18) to Ala (LU19) change.
Selenium is a trace element that is naturally present in many foods, added to others, and available as a dietary supplement.
Nutritionally essential for humans, it is a constituent of more than two dozen selenoproteins that play critical roles in reproduction, thyroid hormone metabolism, DNA synthesis, and protection from oxidative damage and infection.
Selenium exists in two forms: inorganic (selenate and selenite) and organic (selenomethionine and selenocysteine).
Both forms can be good dietary sources of selenium.
Soils contain inorganic selenites and selenates that plants accumulate and convert to organic forms, mostly selenocysteine and selenomethionine and their methylated derivatives.
Most selenium is in the form of selenomethionine in animal and human tissues, where it can be incorporated nonspecifically with the amino acid methionine in body proteins.
Skeletal muscle is the major site of selenium storage.
Seafoods and organ meats are the richest food sources of selenium.
Other sources include muscle meats, cereals and other grains, and dairy products.
The amount of selenium in drinking water is not nutritionally significant in most geographic regions.
Thyroglobulin (Tg) is a protein produced by and used entirely within the thyroid gland.
Thyroglobulin is used by the thyroid gland to produce the thyroid hormones thyroxine (T4) and triiodothyronine (T3).
Thyroglobulin is stored in the thyroid in follicle cysts surrounded by colloid cells.
Via a reaction with the enzyme thyroperoxidase, iodine is covalently bound to tyrosine residues in thyroglobulin molecules, forming monoiodotyrosine (MIT) and diiodotyrosine (DIT).
Thyroxine is produced by linking two moieties of DIT.
Combining one particle of MIT and one particle of DIT produces triiodothyronine.
Proteases in lysosomes digest iodinated thyroglobulin, releasing T3 and T4.
Thyroglobulin levels in the blood can be used as a tumor marker for certain kinds of thyroid cancer.
Thyroglobulin levels in the blood can also be elevated in cases of Graves Disease.
Nabumetone is a non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID), the only 1-naphthaleneacetic acid derivative.
Nabumetone has been developed by Beecham.
It is available under numerous brand names, such as Relafen, Relifex and Gambaran.
It is used to treat pain or inflammation caused by arthritis.
Nabumetone works by reducing the effects of hormones that cause pain and inflammation.
Factor VIII replacement is the foundational treatment for hemophilia A, and the developement of alloantibodies (known as inhibitors) against the replacement factor is the most important complication causing morbidity in hemophilia patients.
Antibodies against factor VIII can be inhibitory or noninhibitory, with inhibitors generally being polycloncal IgG directed against the A2, A3 and C2 domains of the factor VIII molecule.
The resulting steric hindrance can block functional epitopes including FIX, phospholipid, or von Willebrand binding sites .
The Common Hazel (Corylus avellana) is a species of hazel native to Europe and Asia.
The fruit is a nut, produced in clusters of one to five together, each hazelnut held in a short leafy involucre ('husk') which encloses about three quarters of the nut.
The nut is roughly spherical to oval, 15-25 mm long and 12-20 mm broad, yellow-brown with a pale scar at the base.
The nut falls out of the involucre when ripe, about 7-8 months after pollination.
The central apnea index (CAI) is calculated as the number of central apnea events per hour of sleep.
Gas flow refers to the movement of air and gases in and out of the lung.
Measuring gas flow is routinely used to diagnose various pathologies of the lung such as bronchial obstruction or hyperinflation as well as monitoring patients during surgery or while ventilated.
Sjogren syndrome type A antigen (also known as SS-A, Ro, and E3 ubiquitin-protein ligase TRIM21) and Sjogren syndrome type B antigen (also known as SS-B and Lupus La protein) are nuclear antigens to which autoantibodies develop in autoimmune disorders such as Sjogren's syndrome (SS) and systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE).
Between 40 and 70% of patients with SS have anti-SSA and/or anti-SSB autoantibodies, and 30-40% and 10-15% of patients with SLE are anti-SSA and anti-SSB positive, respectively.
Longitudinal studies have shown that anti-SSA and -SSB antibodies may be present up to 20 years before the clinical onset of disease.
SS patients who are anti-SSA and anti-SSB positive may have longer disease duration, parotid gland enlargement, decreased salivary flow, more severe minor salivary gland infiltration and a higher prevalence of extraglandular manifestations.
S-100 protein is a family of low molecular weight protein found in vertebrates characterized by two calcium binding sites of the helix-loop-helix ("EF-hand type") conformation.
There are at least 21 different types of S100 proteins.
The name is derived from the fact that the protein is 100% Soluble in ammonium sulfate at neutral pH. Several members of the S-100 protein family are useful as markers for certain tumors and epidermal differentiation.
It can be found in melanomas, 50% of malignant peripheral nerve sheath tumors, schwannomas, paraganglioma stromal cells, histiocytoma and clear cell sarcomas.
Further, S100 proteins are markers for inflammatory diseases and can mediate inflammation and act as antimicrobials.
A species of gram-negative bacteria and causative agent of severe bovine ANAPLASMOSIS.
It is the most pathogenic of the ANAPLASMA species.
An enzyme that catalyzes the conversion of alpha,alpha-trehalose and water to D-glucose. .
Colza oil is a non-drying oil obtained from the seeds of Brassica campestris, var.
oleifera, a variety of the plant that produces Swedish turnips.
Colza is extensively cultivated in France, Belgium, United States of America, the Netherlands and Germany.
In France, especially, the extraction of the oil is an important industry.
In commerce, colza is classed with rapeseed oil, to which it is very closely allied in both source and properties.
It is a comparatively in-odorous oil of a yellow color, having a specific gravity varying between 0.912 to 0.920.
The cake left after extraction of the oil is a valuable feeding substance for pigs.
Ilheus virus (ILHV) was isolated from mosquitoes in Brazil in 1944.
ILHV belongs to the family Flaviviridae, genus Flavivirus in the Ntaya antigenic complex.
Flaviviruses are single-stranded positive-sense RNA viruses.
ILHV has been isolated from multiple mosquito species and from various bird species.
Vectors include Ochlerotatus and Psorophora.
Symptoms range from asymptotic to rare reports of severe febrile disease with cardiac system or central nervous system (CNS) involvement.
Mild symptoms present as mild febrile illness, gastrointestinal symptoms, respiratory symptoms, headache, myalgia, photophobia, and arthralgia .
Yellow fever (also called yellow jack, black vomit or vomito negro in Spanish, or sometimes American Plague) is an acute viral disease.
It is an important cause of hemorrhagic illness in many African and South American countries despite existence of an effective vaccine.
The yellow in the disease name refers to the jaundice that affects some patients.
Yellow fever has been a source of several devastating epidemics.
Test is for the qualitative detection of 14 high risk Human Papillomavirus (HPV) types primarily in cervical or endocervical swab specimens by amplification of target DNA and nucleic acid hybridization.
Submitter's test, the cobas® HPV Test, specifically identifies types HPV16 and HPV18 while concurrently detecting 12 other high risk types (31, 33, 35, 39, 45, 51, 52, 56, 58, 59, 66 and 68).
The test is based on two major processes: (1) automated specimen preparation to simultaneously extract HPV and cellular DNA; (2) PCR amplification of target DNA sequences using both HPV and β-globin specific complementary primer pairs and real-time detection of cleaved fluorescent-labeled HPV and β-globin specific oligonucleotide detection probes.
Primers used define a sequence of approximately 200 nucleotides within the polymorphic L1 region of the HPV genome.
Normal bone marrows contain a small percent of cells carrying the CD34 antigen.
Such cells can also be detected in the circulating blood and their numbers can be increased with the various marrow stimulating factors.
It is a very important cell type for patients under consideration for bone marrow transplant because these cells include the hematopoetic stem cells needed to re-generate the bone marrow after it is ablated.
The number of circulating CD34 is also useful in the diagnosis of myeloproliferative disorders and predicting which will transform to malignancy.
Viable CD34 cells can be distinguished from dead ones with 7-AAD viability dye.
Coffee has an allergen code is f221, the Latin name is Coffea spp.
Coffee comes from an evergreen, glabrous shrub or small tree which grows up to 5m tall if not pruned.
It is widely cultivated in warm, moist mountainous regions around the world.
The dried seeds or beans of the tree are roasted, ground, and brewed to make 1 of the 2 most important drinks in the Western World.
Coffee contains over 200 substances, including caffeine, liverine, methylliberine, paraxantine, theacrine, theobromine, theophylline, acids, carbohydrates, lipids, minerals, and bases.
Patients may be exposed to coffee in unexpected ways too.
Coffee pulp and parchment are used as manures and mulches.
A plastic know as coffelite is made from coffee beans and is used to create tables and chairs.
Ureaplasma parvum and Ureaplasma urealyticum are a bacteria species of Genus Ureaplasma and potentially pathogenic, causing both genital infections and male infertility.
Ureaplasma species inhabit both the respiratory and urogenital tracts and are among the sexually transmitted infections.
They can be detected in specimens by various methods, including culture and molecular methods.
Trifluoperazine is a conventional antipsychotic that has been used since the 1950s to treat schizophrenia.
It is a derivative of phenothiazine and is related to chlorpromazine, and blocks the post-synaptic D2 dopamine receptor.
Side effects include extrapyramidal symptoms such as dystonia, akathisia, and tardive dyskinesia, as well as confusion, agitation, dry mouth, and blurred vision.
Trifluoperazine causes less sedation and hypotension compared to other conventional antipsychotics.
Milicia excelsa is a tree species from tropical Africa.
It is found in Angola, Benin, Burundi, Cameroon, Central African Republic, the Republic of the Congo, the Democratic Republic of the Congo, Ivory Coast, Equatorial Guinea, Ethiopia, Gabon, Ghana, Kenya, Malawi, Mozambique, Nigeria, Rwanda, São Tomé and Príncipe, Sierra Leone, Sudan, Tanzania, Togo, Uganda, and Zimbabwe.
It is one of the species yielding iroko.
Escherichia coli (EC) is a gram-negative, flagellated, rod-shaped bacterium.
There are six classes of EC that cause diarrhea, one of which is the diffusely adhering E. coli (DAEC) class.
Within the DAEC class is a class of strains of EC that expresses an adhesin involved in diffuse adherence (AIDA-I) which is encoded by the aidA-I gene.
The AIDA-I protein is a multifunctional autotransporter protein that regulates the aggregation of bacteria and formation of biofilm.
Veterinary Medicine: The Strains of EC that possess the aidA-I gene can infect swine and cause edema disease and postweaning diarrhea (PWD), both of which have significant negative economic impacts on farms across the world.
Bailie G, Massry S. Clinical Practice Guidelines for Bone Metabolism and Disease in Chronic Kidney Disease: An Overview-Guideline 6: Serum Calcium and Calcium-Phosphorus Product.
Red blood cells that range from slightly oval to elongated cigar-shaped forms.
Rabbits are small mammals in the family Leporidae of the order Lagomorpha, found in many parts of the world.
There are seven different genera in the family classified as rabbits, including the European Rabbit (Oryctolagus cuniculus), cottontail rabbits (genus Sylvilagus ; 13 species), and the Amami Rabbit (Pentalagus furnessi, an endangered species on Amami Oshima, Japan).
There are many other species of rabbit, and these, along with cottontails, pikas and hares make up the Order Lagomorpha.
Rabbits generally live for about 4-10 years.
GlycA was first seen as a signal on a nuclear magnetic resonance spectrum for lipoprotein particle analysis.
GlycA was found to emanate from a subset of glycan N-acetylglucosamine residues on enzymatically glycosylated acute phase proteins.
That signal was thought possible to provide an advantageous marker for systemic inflammation.
The additional acute phase proteins included in the signal are alpha-1-acid glycoprotein, haptoglobin, alpha-1-antitrypsin, alpha-1-antichymotrypsin and transferrin.
GlycA biomarker levels correlates with high-sensitivity C-reactive protein, fibrinogen and interleukin-6.
GlycA has notable analytical and clinical attributes that may supplement or improve upon current systemic inflammatory markers including for rheumatoid arthritis.
The causal relationship of the diagnosis to a patient's death, e.g., primary, underlying, contributory.
The MTFMT gene (mitochondrial methionyl-tRNA formyltransferase) is located on chromosome 15q22.31.
The protein encoded by this nuclear gene localizes to the mitochondrion, where it catalyzes the formylation of methionyl-tRNA.
Cytoplasm stored in an egg that contains nutritional reserves for the developing embryo.
It is rich in polysaccharides, lipids, and proteins.
Chlamydia refers to a genus of bacteria that are obligate intracellular parasites.
Chlamydia infections are the most common bacterial sexually transmitted infections in humans and are the leading cause of infectious blindness worldwide.
The three Chlamydia species include Chlamydia trachomatis (a human pathogen), Chlamydia suis (affects only swine), and Chlamydia muridarum (affects only mice and hamsters).
Prior to 1999, the Chlamydia genus included two clinically relevant species that are presently in the genus Chlamydophila, Chlamydophila pneumoniae and Chlamydophila psittaci.
Both were moved to the Chlamydophila genus.
Flurazepam (brand names Dalmane and Dalmadorm) is a drug which is a benzodiazepine derivative.
It possesses anxiolytic, anticonvulsant, sedative and skeletal muscle relaxant properties.
Its major metabolite, N-desalkylflurazepam, has a very long half-life (40-250 hours), is prone to accumulation, and may stay in the bloodstream for up to four days.
Flurazepam is therefore unsuitable as a sleeping medication for some individuals due to next-day sedation.
Macrophage inflammatory protein 1 alpha (MIP-1 alpha) is chemotactic cytokine that is a member of the CC subfamily of chemokines.
It is secreted by macrophages that are typically increased in areas of inflammation and bone resorption.
MIP-1 alpha attracts other macrophages, lymphocytes, and eosinophils by way of the CCR1 and CCR5 receptors present on the surface of macrophages.
Also, MIP-1 alpha promotes wound healing, inhibits stem cells, and maintains effector immune responses.
MIP-1 alpha plays an influential pathogenic role in diseases that are associated with inflammation and bone resorption including periodontitis, multiple myeloma, Sjogren syndrome, and rheumatoid arthritis.
MIP-1 alpha may be used as a biomarker for inflammatory diseases in the future.
Doxycycline is a member of the tetracycline antibiotics group and is commonly used to treat a variety of infections.
Brand names include Monodox®, Periostat®, Vibramycin®, Vibra-Tabs®, Doryx®, Vibrox®, Adoxa®, Doxyhexal® and Atridox® (topical doxycycline hyclate for gum disease.
Semisynthetic broad-spectrum cephalosporin with a tetrazolyl moiety that is resistant to beta-lactamase.
It has been proposed especially against Pseudomonas infections.
Demoxepam is a drug which is a benzodiazepine derivative.
It is a metabolite of chlordiazepoxide and has anticonvulsant properties and presumably other characteristic benzodiazepine properties.
Healthy patients have the majority of light chains in serum bound to heavy chains.
Low levels of free light chains (unbound) are normal due to the over-production and secretion of free light chains by plasma cells.
In the kidneys, the free light chains are selectively reabsorbed by the tubular cells, so their presence in urine is likely due to secretion into the urinary tract.
Elevation of monoclonal free light chains in serum or urine signal malignant plasma cell proliferation (multiple myeloma), primary amyloidosis, or light chain deposition disease.
Elevation of polyclonal free light chains suggests autoimmune diseases such as systemic lupus erythematosus.
(Information from Freelite Beckman Coulter IMMAGE II package insert, Version 23, Feb 2009)
The thymus is a small organ located behind the sternum and between the lungs.
It is where lymphocytes develop into T cells and is believed to assist in protecting the body from autoimmune attack.
The thymus is only active through puberty, after which it slowly shrinks throughout life until at age 75 has mostly been replaced by fat.
than in patients negative for MG.
Mung bean, also known as green bean, mung, mongo, moong, moog dal, mash bean, munggo or monggo, green gram, golden gram, and green soy, is the seed of Vigna radiata which is native to Bangladesh, India, and Pakistan.
Virginia live oak tree is native to the southeastern United States, from Virginia to Florida and west to Texas.
It is also found in Cuba and in isolated locales in Mexico.
Oak pollen is a major cause of asthma, allergic rhinitis and allergic conjunctivitis.
Virginia live oak is not as common as White oak, but when it is grown in urban communities and near rural ones, it is an important allergen, and the prevalence of atopic sensitisation its pollen will be high.
Clotting time of the last step in the coagulation cascade, which is the conversion of fibrinogen into fibrin by thrombin.
Two types of human immunodeficiency viruses (HIV) have been characterized: HIV-1 and HIV-2.
HIV-1 was initially discovered in the early 1980s and thought to be the sole causative agent of HIV infections and ultimately AIDS.
In 1986, HIV-2 was isolated and also found to cause AIDs.
HIV-1 is more virulent and the predominant cause of the HIV infections worldwide.
HIV-2 is poorly transmitted and is primarily concentrated in West Africa.
Presently (2012), HIV-1 strains are divided into four groups, including group M (major) with subtypes
A through K, group O (outlier), group N (non-M or O), and group P. HIV-2 is divided into subtypes A through E. Occasionally, two viruses of different subtypes can "cross react" and blend their genetic material to create a new hybrid HIV virus.
However, many of these new strains do not survive for long.
Studies have also shown that the core proteins of HIV-1 and HIV-2 display frequent cross-reactivity whereas the envelope proteins are more type-specific.
Tacrolimus (also called FK-506 or fujimycin, Prograf, Advagraf, or Protopic) is amacrolide lactone, calcineurin inhibitor immunosuppresent used mainly after allogeneic organ transplant to lower the risk of organ rejection.
It possesses strong immunosuppressive activity by preventing the activation by of T-lymphocytes in response to antigenic or mitogenic stimulation.
Tacrolimus is also used in a topical preparation in the treatment of atopic dermatitis (eczema), severe refractory uveitis after bone marrow transplants, exacerbations of minimal change disease, TH2-mediated diseases such as Kimura's disease, and the skin condition vitiligo.
There are potentially severe side effects from doses that are either too low or too high; inadequate tacrolimus concentrations may result in rejection of the transplanted organ, while high levels may lead to severe adverse effects includin nephrotoxicity, neurotoxicity, gastrointestinal disturbances, diabetogenesis, hypertension and malignant complications.
Platelet mass has prognostic value in patients with myelodysplastic syndromes.
Trichlorofluoromethane, also called freon-11, CFC-11, or R-11, is a chlorofluorocarbon.
It is a colorless, nearly odorless liquid that boils at about room temperature.
Nonoperative repair of occluded vessels, ducts, or valves by insertion of a balloon catheter.
It is used, among other things, to treat varices, torn retinas, renal and biliary calculi, gastric, bronchial and rectal stenoses, and heart valves, and includes catheterization with Fogarty and Foley catheters.
A vitamin-K dependent zymogen present in the blood, which, upon activation by thrombin and thrombomodulin exerts anticoagulant properties by inactivating factors Va and VIIIa at the rate-limiting steps of thrombin formation.
ATPases are a class of enzymes that catalyze the decomposition of adenosine triphosphate (ATP) into adenosine diphosphate (ADP) and a free phosphate ion.
This dephosphorylation reaction releases energy, which the enzyme (in most cases) harnesses to drive other chemical reactions that would not otherwise occur.
This process is widely used in all known forms of life.
The SERPINE1 gene (serpin peptidase inhibitor, clade E (nexin, plasminogen activator inhibitor type 1), member 1) is located on chromosome 7q22.1.
This gene encodes a member of the serine proteinase inhibitor (serpin) superfamily.
This member is the principal inhibitor of tissue plasminogen activator (tPA) and urokinase (uPA), and hence is an inhibitor of fibrinolysis.
Defects in this gene are the cause of plasminogen activator inhibitor-1 deficiency (PAI-1 deficiency), and high concentrations of the gene product are associated with thrombophilia.
Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
The UMOD gene (uromodulin) is located on chromosome 16p12.3.
The protein encoded by this gene is the most abundant protein in mammalian urine under physiological conditions.
Its excretion in urine follows proteolytic cleavage of the ectodomain of its glycosyl phosphatidylinosital-anchored counterpart that is situated on the luminal cell surface of the loop of Henle.
This protein may act as a constitutive inhibitor of calcium crystallization in renal fluids.
Excretion of this protein in urine may provide defense against urinary tract infections caused by uropathogenic bacteria.
Defects in this gene are associated with the renal disorders medullary cystic kidney disease-2 (MCKD2), glomerulocystic kidney disease with hyperuricemia and isosthenuria (GCKDHI), and familial juvenile hyperuricemic nephropathy (FJHN).
Alternative splicing of this gene results in multiple transcript variants.
The straight line distance between Condylion and Anterior Nasal Spine
CD69 (Cluster of Differentiation 69) is a human protein encoded by the CD69 gene.
The activation of T lymphocytes, both in vivo and in vitro, induces expression of CD69.
This molecule, which appears to be the earliest inducible cell surface glycoprotein acquired during lymphoid activation, is involved in lymphocyte proliferation and functions as a signal-transmitting receptor in lymphocytes, natural killer (NK) cells, and platelets (Cambiaggi et al., 1992) .
HLA-DRB1*1501 and DRB1*1503, subtypes of DR2, are associated with narcolepsy.
There is a strong association between HLA DR2/DQ1 and idiopathic narcolepsy in both the Japanese and Caucasian population.
Studies between the Japanese and Caucasian population have shown 85 to 90% of individuals diagnosed with narcolepsy have DR2/DQ1.
In Blacks, DR5 may be present instead of DR2, however, nearly all have DQ1.
The absence of DQ1 in a patient with negative clinical findings is strong evidence against the diagnosis of narcolepsy.
The LCA5 gene (Leber congenital amaurosis 5) is located on chromosome 6q14.1.
This gene encodes a protein that is thought to be involved in centrosomal or ciliary functions.
Mutations in this gene cause Leber congenital amaurosis type V. Alternatively spliced transcript variants are described.
The inactive proenzyme of trypsin secreted by the pancreas, activated in the duodenum via cleavage by enteropeptidase.
Serum amyloid A (SAA) proteins are a family of apolipoproteins associated with high-density lipoprotein (HDL).
Different isoforms of SAA are expressed constitutively (constitutive SAAs) at different levels or in response to inflammatory stimuli (acute phase SAAs or A-SAAs).
A-SAAs are secreted during the acute phase of inflammation and are implicated in several chronic inflammatory diseases, such as amyloidosis, atherosclerosis, and rheumatoid arthritis.
Amyloid A (AA) protein quantification in tissue specimens is a sensitive and specific method for detection of clinical AA amyloidosis.
Glecaprevir is a hepatitis C virus (HCV) NS3/NS4A protease inhibitor.
As of 2019, it is available in the U.S. in combination with pibrentasvir, an HCV NS5A inhibitor.
The combination drug has high efficacy in treating patients with chronic HCV infection for HCV genotypes 1-6 ("pangenotypic").
Direct or indirect contact with bird allergens frequently causes sensitisation.
Bird allergens are major components of house dust.
The Turkey is a New World variety of the pheasant.
The domesticated variety is bred mainly for its meat, a traditional holiday dish in the United States.
Turkeys are conspicuous for their tail plumage, sometimes carried in a fan-like display like that of peacocks, but in more muted colors.
It is estimated that Turkeys have approximately 3500 feathers at maturity
Exposure to 1,2-dichloroethane, a manufactured industrial chemical, usually occurs by breathing contaminated air in workplaces, such as factories, that use 1,2-dichloroethane.
Breathing or ingesting high levels of 1,2-dichloroethane can cause damage to the nervous system, liver, kidneys, and lungs and may cause cancer.
This substance has been found in at least 570 of the 1,585 National Priorities List sites identified by the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA).
One of the three domains of life (the others being Eukarya and Archaea), also called Eubacteria.
They are unicellular prokaryotic microorganisms which generally possess rigid cell walls and multiply by cell division.
They exhibit three principal forms: round or coccal, rodlike or bacillary, and spiral or spirochetal.
Bacteria can be classified by their response to oxygen (aerobic, anaerobic, or facultatively anaerobic) and by how they obtain their energy (chemotrophic, i.e. via a chemical reaction or phototrophic, via a light reaction).
In addition, chemotrophs obtain their energy from chemicals, lithotrophic from inorganic compounds and organotrophic from organic compounds.
Bacteria are also classified by the source carbon that they utilize: heterotrophic, from organic sources or autotrophic, from carbon dioxide.
They can also be classified by whether or not they stain (based on the structure of their cell walls) with crystal violet dye: gram-negative or gram-positive.
A citrate is an ionic form of citric acid, such as C3 H5 O(COO)3 3ˆ', that is, citric acid minus three hydrogen ions.
Citrates are compounds containing this group, either ionic compounds, the salts, or analogous covalent compounds, esters.
An example of a salt is sodium citrate and an ester is trimethyl citrate.
Because citric acid is a multifunctional acid, several intermediate ions exist: hydrogen citrate ion, HC6 H5 O7 2ˆ' and dihydrogen citrate ion, H2 C6 H5 O7 ˆ'.
These may form salts as well, called acid salts.
Salts of the hydrogen citrate ions are weakly acidic, whereas salts of the citrate ion itself (with an inert cation such as sodium ion) are weakly basic.
Influenza B viruses can be separated into two major lineages, B/Victoria and B/Yamagata.
Recent studies have shown that the two major lineages may differ in terms of epidemiology and risk of secondary infection.
One study found that patients with confirmed influenza B Victoria lineage infections were significantly younger compared to patients infected with the Yamagata lineage.
A separate study found that Victoria-lineage viruses were associated with a significantly higher risk of secondary infection among patients' household contacts who were 15 years old or younger than among those older than 15, but the same did not hold true for Yamagata-lineage viruses.
Studies have also shown that genetically distinct lineages like B/Victoria/2/87 can cocirculate in the population and that the reassortment among these strains plays a role in generating the genetic diversity of influenza B viruses.
Interleukin 13 (IL-13) is a cytokine secreted by many cell types, but especially T helper type 2 (Th2) cells, that is an important mediator of allergic inflammation and disease.
Aneusomy (varying number) of chromosome 7 is evaluated by using a DNA probe that marks the centromeric region of chromosome 7.
Such a probe is also called CEP7.
The ratio of the number of signals of the MET gene, also on chromosome 7, to the chromosome 7 signal can indicate whether or not there is amplification of the MET gene.
D-dimer is elevated in disseminated intravascular coagulation (DIC), deep vein thrombosis (DVT), and pulmonary embolism (PE).
Less than 10% of all adverse reactions to drugs have an immunological background, and only a part of those are IgE-mediated.
Drug therapy through parenteral administration is the main route of exposure to penicillin G.
Hepcidin is a peptide hormone primarily synthesized in the liver and essential in regulating dietary iron absorption and distribution.
Hepcidin lowers iron concentrations by counteracting the function of ferroportin, a major cellular iron exporter.
Hepcidin forms include preprohormone (84 amino acids), prohormone (60 amino acids), and hormone (25 amino acids).
Twenty- and 22-amino acid forms of Hepcidin also exist in the urine.
The 25 amino acid form is referred to as the "bioactive" hepcidin since it can block the iron transporter ferroportin.
The N terminal region is required for function and deletion of 5 N-terminal peptides results in a loss of function.
Deficiency in hepcidin-25 concentration is associated with iron loading in hereditary hemochromatosis and thalassemia's.
Protein tyrosine phosphatase, non-receptor type 22 (lymphoid), also known as PTPN22, is a protein that in humans is encoded by the PTPN22 gene.
This gene can be expressed in different forms.
PTPN22 affects the responsiveness of T and B cell receptors, and mutations are associated with increases or decreases in risks of autoimmune diseases.
The common 1858T (rs2476601) Arg620Trp nonsynonymous single nucleotide polymorphism located in the PTPN22 gene has been associated with autoimmune disorders, including an increased risk of Type 1 Diabetes, rheumatoid arthritis, Systemic Lupus Erythematosus, Vitiligo and Graves' disease, but a decreased risk of Crohn's disease.
A recent study suggests that the mutation does not, on a population basis, reduce life span.
The mutation may be conserved in human evolution because it may provide a hyper-immune response to infectious disease.
Abnormally migrating creatine kinase isoenzyme bands are occasionally seen in electrophoresis panels.
There is no known association with any clinical disorder.
Cystathionine beta-synthase is an enzyme encoded by the CBS gene and converts homocysteine and serine to form cystathionine.
Mutations in the CBS gene disrupt the normal function of cystathionine beta-synthase, causing a build up of homocysteine.
Patients with homocystinuria caused by CBS deficiency present with developmental delay, ectopia lentis and/or severe myopia, skeletal abnormalities and thromboembolism.
The chromogranin/secretogranin (granins) are a family of regulated secretory proteins ubiquitously found in the cores of amine and peptide hormone and neurotransmitter dense-core secretory vesicles.
A complex of cyclic peptide antibiotics produced by the Tracy-I strain of Bacillus subtilis.
The commercial preparation is a mixture of at least nine bacitracins with bacitracin A as the major constituent.
It is used topically to treat open infections such as infected eczema and infected dermal ulcers.
(From Goodman and Gilman, The Pharmacological Basis of Therapeutics, 8th ed, p1140)
Multiple inhalant allergen screening tests, such as the ImmunoCap Phadiatop and Siemen's IMMULITE Alatop, are used to assess if an inhalant allergy is present in conditions such as asthma and rhinitis.
Each screening test has extracts from various allergens and can be adapted to include locally implicated aero-allergens.
A screening test doesn't indicate which individual allergens are implicated but rather whether there is respiratory allergy or not.
Immunoglobulin E (IgE) is the antibody found in blood and tissues which causes allergies.
Elevated levels of IgE suggest an inhalant allergy is present.
Urobilin (additionally and formerly known as urochrome) is a yellow linear tetrapyrrole, resulting from the breakdown of heme, a cyclic tetrapyrrole.
The normal yellow color of urine is attributable to urobilin.
Urobilin is produced when Urobilinogen is oxidized by intestinal bacteria; it can also be produced when urobilinogen is exposed to the environment upon urination, resulting in its oxidation to urobilin.
It is a sensitive marker for biliary obstruction, and early acute hepatitis as well.
Factor XI is produced by the liver and encoded by the FII gene.
Deficiency of factor XI causes hemophilia C, an autosomal recessive condition that primarily occurs in the Ashkenazi Jewish population.
Patients with severe factor XI deficiency may develop an inhibitor to factor XI after infusion of fresh frozen plasma or factor XI concentrates.
Porcine Epidemic Diarrhea Virus (PEDv) is a large-enveloped RNA virus, which is a member of the genus Alphacoronavirus within the Coronaviridae family.
The complete PEDv genome consists of 5 gene segments: open reading frame 1 (ORF1), spike (S), envelope (E), membrane (M), and nucleocapsid (N).
It is encapsulated by a single N protein.
The S protein contributes to the stimulation of neutralizing antibodies in the infected host.
Its association to adapted growth in vitro and attenuation in vivo lends itself to use for genetic comparison among PEDV isolates and effective vaccines.
The M protein is required for assembly and can also induce the production of virus-neutralizing antibodies.
The E protein contributes to coronavirus budding.
The N protein has functions associated with viral replication and pathogenesis.
PEDv causes viral enteritis, which leads to the destruction of villus enterocytes in pigs of all ages.
It is spread by the ingestion of feces from infected pigs, resulting in vomiting, watery diarrhea, dehydration, and high mortality, especially in nursery piglets.
Disease caused by PEDv is clinically similar to that caused by Transmissible gastroenteritis coronavirus (TGEV)
At least two PEDv strains have been identified in the USA: the US PEDv prototype and S INDEL variant.
The INDEL variant PEDv strain has insertions and deletions (INDELs) in the spike (S) gene.
The INDEL strain is related to milder clinical signs than prototype strains.
The genomic differences in the S gene between the US PEDv prototype and INDEL variant may be responsible for the virulence differences.
Potential targets when testing for PEDv RNA include the nucleocapsid protein (N) gene and the ~2500 bp fragment of the S-gene.
The 16S rRNA gene sequencing of the Mycoplasma hyosynoviae is generally used to show the genomic diversity in various anatomical sites of pigs and geographical regions where the organism is found.
3-Hydroxytrimethyl-L-lysine is found within the Lysine degradation (aka L-carnitine biosynthesis)
pathway; it is a byproduct of trimethyllysine dioxygenase (trimethyllysine hydroxylase,, which converts trimethyllysine + 2-oxoglutarate to 3-Hydroxytrimethyl-L-lysine + succinate.
Patients with X-linked trimethyllysine hydroxylase (TMLHE) deficiency, a carnitine deficiency disorder associated with autism, have lower than expected levels of carnitine as well as 3-Hydroxytrimethyl-L-lysine, and elevated levels of trimethyllysine.
The amount of adenosinetriphosphate (ATP) present in stimulated (usually PHA) blood specimens is a measure of lymphocyte activity.
Normal range (226-524 ng/mL).
CD4 lymphocytes orchestrate CMI responses through immunoregulatory signaling, the measurement of CD4 activation reflects the degree of immune cell function.
Information from Cylex, Inc., the test manufacturer.
Methylhexanamine, commonly known as 1,3-dimethylamylamine or DMAA, is a simple aliphatic amine initially marketed as a nasal decongestant (trademarked as Forthane), as well as treatment for hypertrophied or hyperplasic oral tissues.
It is a vasoconstrictor, and can be administered by inhalation to the nasal mucosa to exert its effect.
It is an ingredient found in a number of stimulants and supplements marketed to athletes as a fat burner/metabolizer.
But, being a mild stimulant, it is banned by a number of sports governing bodies.
Predicted to be involved in binding activity of sperm to zona pellucida; flagellated sperm motility; and regulation of flagellated sperm motility.
Predicted to be located in acrosomal vesicle; extracellular region; and plasma membrane.
Predicted to be active in plasma membrane raft
The T184S mutation is associated with Lamivudine resistance
Dichloroethane can refer to either of two isomeric organochlorides with the molecular formula C2H4Cl2: 1,1-Dichloroethane (ethylidene dichloride) or 1,2-Dichloroethane (ethylene dichloride)
Deoxyguanosine is a nucleoside.
It is similar to guanosine, but with one hydroxyl group removed from the 2' position of the ribose sugar (making it deoxyribose).
If a phosphate group is attached at the 5' position, it becomes deoxyguanosine monophosphate.
A document containing the list of tasks to be completed.
The purpose of this document is to ensure that no step is missed or forgotten.
Parietal cells are epithelial cells which secrete acid (HCl) and intrinsic factor into the stomach.
Acid is required for proper digestion of food and Intrinsic factor is required for the absorption of Vitamin B12 in the small intestine.
An inbalance of either will cause disease.
Excessive acid production can cause peptic ulcers.
Autoantibodies against the parietal cells or intrinsic factor cause either a reduction in vitamin B12 absorption (pernicious anemia) or Achlorydria, where the parietal cells are damaged, unable to produce enough gastric acid, causing an increased pH in the stomach, leading to digestive problems and an increase in the risk of gastroenteritis (an inflammation of the GI tract).
5b-Cholestane-3a,7a,12a,24,25-pentol has been found excreted in the urine from a patient with sitosterolemia as glycine- and taurine-conjugated bile acids.
The hepatitis B surface antigen (HBsAg) is most frequently used to screen for the presence of a Hepatitis B virus infection.
It is the first detectable viral antigen to appear.
Shortly after the appearance of the HBsAg, another antigen called hepatitis B e antigen (HBeAg) will appear.
Traditionally, the presence of HBeAg in a patient's serum is associated with much higher rates of viral replication and enhanced infectivity; however, variants of the hepatitis B virus do not produce the 'e' antigen, so this rule does not always hold true.
During the natural course of an infection, the HBeAg may be cleared, and antibodies to the 'e' antigen (anti-HBe) will arise immediately afterwards.
This conversion is usually associated with a dramatic decline in viral replication.
Nalidixic acid is the basis for quinolone antibiotics.
It acts bacteriostatically (that is, it inhibits growth and reproduction) or bactericidally (it kills them) on both Gram positive and Gram negative bacteria, depending on the concentration.
It is especially used in treating urinary tract infections, caused for example by Escherichia coli, Proteus, shigella, Enterobacter and Klebsiella.
External links:MedlinePlus information on nalidixic acid HealthDigest.
An upper GI tube is used for providing nutrition to patients who are at risk of becoming malnourished in their current physical state and who will need long term nourishment via enteral feeding.
The tube is inserted through the abdominal wall directly into the stomach.
The APC gene (adenomatous polyposis coli) is located on chromosome 5q21-q22.
This gene encodes a tumor suppressor protein that acts as an antagonist of the Wnt signaling pathway.
It is also involved in other processes including cell migration and adhesion, transcriptional activation, and apoptosis.
Defects in this gene cause familial adenomatous polyposis (FAP), an autosomal dominant pre-malignant disease that usually progresses to malignancy.
Disease-associated mutations tend to be clustered in a small region designated the mutation cluster region (MCR) and result in a truncated protein product.
Antibodies against metabotropic glutamate receptor type 1 (mGluR1) are associated with a rare autoimmune encephalitis.
The primary manifestation is cerebellar ataxia, and other symptoms include dysarthria, cognitive impairment, and abnormalities in the sense of taste.
mGluR1 is a cell-surface receptor expressed predominantly in cerebellar Purkinje cell dendrites that plays a major role in coordination and cerebellar motor learning.
Other areas in which mGluR1 is expressed include the olfactory bulb, thalamus, and hippocampus.
Phl p 11 is an allergen with structural similarity to the Soybean trypsin inhibitor family of proteins, however no enzymatic activity has been found.
Note that the allergen now known as Phl p 12 was initially described as Phl p 11.
Up to 70% of grass pollen sensitized individuals in temperate climates have been reported to react with group 11 allergens.
Fluspirilene (Redeptin, Imap, R6218) is a long-acting diphenylbutylpiperidine antipsychotic drug, used for the treatment of schizophrenia.
It is administered intramuscularly.
MutL homolog 1, colon cancer, nonpolyposis type 2 (E. coli), also known as MLH1, is a human gene located on Chromosome 3.
It is a gene commonly associated with hereditary nonpolyposis colorectal cancer.
The OTC gene (ornithine carbamoyltransferase) is located on chromosome Xp21.1.
This nuclear gene encodes a mitochondrial matrix enzyme.
Missense, nonsense, and frameshift mutations in this enzyme lead to ornithine transcarbamylase deficiency, which causes hyperammonemia.
Since the gene for this enzyme maps close to that for Duchenne muscular dystrophy, it may play a role in that disease also.
A polyhydric alcohol with about half the sweetness of sucrose.
Sorbitol occurs naturally and is also produced synthetically from glucose.
It was formerly used as a diuretic and may still be used as a laxative and in irrigating solutions for some surgical procedures.
It is also used in many manufacturing processes, as a pharmaceutical aid, and in several research applications.
Trichothecenes are a very large family of chemically related mycotoxins produced by various species of Fusarium, Myrothecium, Trichoderma, Trichothecium, Cephalosporium, Verticimonosporium, and Stachybotrys.
Trichothecenes belong to sesquiterpene compounds.
The most important structural features causing the biological activities of trichothecenes are: the 12,13-epoxy ring, the presence of hydroxyl or acetyl groups at appropriate positions on the trichothecene nucleus and the structure and position of the side-chain.
They are produced on many different grains like wheat, oats or maize by various Fusarium species such as F. graminearum, F. sporotrichioides, F. poae and F. equiseti.
Some molds that produce trichothecene mycotoxins, such as Stachybotrys chartarum, can grow in damp indoor environments.
It has been found that macrocyclic trichothecenes produced by Stachybotrys chartarum can become airborne and thus contribute to health problems among building occupants.
The poisonous mushroom in Japan and China, Podostroma cornu-damae contains six trichothecenes; satratoxin H, roridin E, verrucarin and others.
Oncorhynchus keta is a Pacific salmon known as chum or dog salmon whose geographical range includes Washington State, Alaska, Russia and Japan.
A species of gram-negative, facultatively anaerobic, rod-shaped bacteria that is extremely pathogenic and causes severe dysentery.
Infection with this organism often leads to ulceration of the intestinal epithelium.
The GFM1 gene (G elongation factor, mitochondrial 1) is located on chromosome 3q25.
Eukaryotes contain two protein translational systems, one in the cytoplasm and one in the mitochondria.
Mitochondrial translation is crucial for maintaining mitochondrial function and mutations in this system lead to a breakdown in the respiratory chain-oxidative phosphorylation system and to impaired maintenance of mitochondrial DNA.
This gene encodes one of the mitochondrial translation elongation factors.
Its role in the regulation of normal mitochondrial function and in different disease states attributed to mitochondrial dysfunction is not known.
AKB48 N-pentanoic acid is a metabolite of Cl-AKB48, 5f-AKB48 and AKB48.
AKB48 (APINACA, N-(1-adamantyl)-1-pentyl-1H-indazole-3-carboxamide), an indazole-based synthetic cannabinoid structurally similar to JWH 018 adamantyl carboxamide and STS-135.
Synthetic cannabinoids interact with the same brain receptors as THC (the active drug present in marijuana) and have been demonstrated to produce similar effects.
The drug is typically sprayed on botanical material and smoked, although it can be ingested in liquid or powder form.
Products containing this drug are sold under a wide variety of names including (but not limited to)
Spice, Potpourri, Smoke, K2, Zombie, Kush, and Cloud 10.
Human Leukocyte Antigen B*27 (subtypes B*2701-2724) is a class I surface antigen encoded by the B locus in the major histocompatibility complex (MHC) on chromosome 6.
It presents microbial antigens to T-cells and is strongly associated with certain immunity diseases (SpA spondyloarthropathies).
In the general population, about 8% Caucasian, 4% African, 2-9% Chinese, and 0.1-0.5% Japanese have the HLA-B27 antigen.
In Northern Scandinavia (Lapland), 24% of people are HLA-B27 positive while 1.8% have ankylosing spondylitis (AS).
Mystery:The relationship between HLA-B27 and many diseases has not yet been fully elucidated.
Though it is associated with a wide range of pathology, it does not appear to be the sole mediator in development of disease.
For example, while nearly all people with ankylosing spondylitis (AS) are HLA-B27 positive, only a fraction of people with HLA-B27 ever develop AS.
Antibodies found in adult rheumatoid arthritis patients that are directed against gamma-chain immunoglobulins.
The mean glucose in blood has a direct correlation to the glycated hemoglobin.
The plasma glucose changes 35mg/dL for every 1% change in the glycated hemoglobin.
The mean blood glucose levels are 10-15% lower than those of plasma.
The FSHD gene (facioscapulohumeral muscular dystrophy 1A) gene is located on chromosome 4q35.
Facioscapulohumeral muscular dystrophy (FSHD) is a common hereditary disease of muscle.
Patients with FSHD have a chromosomal rearrangement within the subtelomeric region of chromosome 4 (4q35).
This region is composed mainly of a polymorphic repeat structure consisting of 3.3 kb repeat units, designated D4Z4.
The number of repeat units varies from 10 to more than 100 in the population, however, in FSHD patients only 1-10 repeat units is observed because of a deletion of an integral number of these units.
FSHD is caused by an epigenetic mechanism involving the contraction of a subtelomeric macrosatellite repeat, which results in marked hypomethylation of the contracted D4Z4 allele.
It is likely not the structure, but the deregulation of transcription of one or more genes as a result of repeat-contraction-mediated chromatin alterations, that causes FSHD.
HPV type 45 has been associated with low grade cervical abnormalities, cancer precursors, and anogenital cancers.
Avian paramyxoviruses are in the genera Avulavirus.
Avian paramyxoviruses (APMV) consist of nine distinct known serotypes and the numbers will increase due to isolation of new unknown serotypes.
The APMVs are separated into distinct serotypes using Hemagglutination assay and Neuraminidase assay.
Avian paramyxovirus 1 (APMV-1) causes Newcastle disease in avian species.
The other serotypes may cause mild infections in avian species.
The stringy elastic character of cervical mucus during the ovulatory period.
The NAGS gene (N-acetylglutamate synthase) is located on chromosome 17q21.31.
The N-acetylglutamate synthase gene encodes a mitochondrial enzyme that catalyzes the formation of N-acetylglutamate (NAG) from glutamate and acetyl coenzyme-A. NAG is a cofactor of carbamyl phosphate synthetase I (CPSI), the first enzyme of the urea cycle in mammals.
This gene may regulate ureagenesis by altering NAG availability and, thereby, CPSI activity.
Deficiencies in N-acetylglutamate synthase have been associated with hyperammonemia.
Complement total hemolytic CH50 testing is used to monitor Systemic Lupus Erythematosus (SLE) patients' response to therapy.
It is also used to evaluate complement component deficiency, complement activity in patients with immune complexes, glomerulonephritis, rheumatoid arthritis, and cryoglobulinemia.
Complement is a system of 25 proteins associated with cell membranes and present in plasma; it plays a vital role in the function of the immune system.
Complement components function in the "classical" and "alternative" pathways.
The CH50 assay mainly evaluates the classical pathway.
Complement proteins are activated during the acute phase of inflammation or infection.
Decreased levels of complement components occur during hypercatabolism, expenditure in immune complexes or due to hereditary deficiency.
Decreasing complement levels may signal upcoming clinical problems, especially lupus nephritis.
Benzyl chloride, or α-chlorotoluene, is an organic compound with the formula C6H5CH2Cl.
This colorless liquid is a reactive organochlorine compound that is a widely used chemical building block.
The SLC25A4 gene (solute carrier family 25 (mitochondrial carrier; adenine nucleotide translocator), member 4) is located on chromosome 4q35.
This gene is a member of the mitochondrial carrier subfamily of solute carrier protein genes.
The product of this gene functions as a gated pore that translocates ADP from the cytoplasm into the mitochondrial matrix and ATP from the mitochondrial matrix into the cytoplasm.
The protein forms a homodimer embedded in the inner mitochondria membrane.
Mutations in this gene have been shown to result in autosomal dominant progressive external opthalmoplegia and familial hypertrophic cardiomyopathy.
The influenza B virus (FLUVB) genome is composed of eight gene segments that code for 11 proteins.
Segment 8 of the viral genome contains the NS (non-structural) gene, which encodes two distinct non-structural proteins (NS1 and NEP).
The NS gene is a conserved region and commonly used target for detection of influenza B virus in various specimens.
Hemoglobin D (HbD) is a common hemoglobin variant that occurs primarily in north-west India, Pakistan and Iran.
Hemoglobin D disease occurs when an individual inherits two copies of the HbD gene.
It is a rare and relatively mild disease associated with mild anemia.
HbD levels can be detected electrophoretically and compared to the total hemoglobin.
HbD Punjab, also known as HbD-Los Angeles, is the most common variant among the HbD variants.
Hemoglobins exhibit different migration patterns in alkaline versus acidic electrophoresis conditions.
So a combination of 2 procedures can be used in tandem to identify the hemoglobin variants.
A serovar of the bacterial species LEPTOSPIRA INTERROGANS, whose frequent host is CATTLE.
Parathyrin related protein levels distinguish PTH and tumor stimulated hypercalcemia due to squamous cell CA and breast CA.
Parathyroid hormone related peptide (PTHrP) is now known to play a major role in hypercalcemia of malignancy.
It has been identified as the major causative agent in tumors that were previously thought to cause hypercalcemia through skeletal metastatic involvement.
Also known as parathyroid hormone-like peptide.
A species of ARENAVIRUS, part of the New World Arenaviruses (ARENAVIRUSES, NEW WORLD), causing Argentinian hemorrhagic fever.
The disease is characterized by congestion, edema, generalized lymphadenopathy and hemorrhagic necrosis and is sometimes fatal.
A component of high density lipoproteins.
It is instrumental in promoting efflux of cholesterol from extrahepatic tissue to the liver where it is metabolized and excreted from the body.
This protein modulates the activation of lecithin-cholesterol acyltransferase in the presence of apolipoprotein A-I.
The ANA centrosome pattern, previously called centriole, is associated with systemic lupus erythematosus, rheumatoid arthritis, systemic sclerosis, Raynaud's phenomenon, and localized scleroderma.
However, it has low predictive value for any specific disorder.
This pattern is associated with the antigens pericentrin, ninein, Cep250, and Cep110.
Vanillylmandelic acid (VMA) is the major metabolite of the catecholamines.
Increased levels of VMA are often seen in patients with pheochromocytoma.
VMA levels are of value for evaluation of hypertension, diagnosis and follow up of neuroblastoma, ganglioneuroma, and ganglioneuroblastoma.
Urinary VMA is increased in about 90% of patients with neuroblastoma.
Neuroblastoma patients with a Homovanillic acid (HVA) to VMA ratio of less than 1 or greater than 2 have an unfavorable prognosis.
Elevated VMA in cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) without a concomitant elevation of urine VMA may be a marker for neuroectodermal brain tumors and could potentially be used to monitor treatment efficacy.
White hickory, closely related to the Pecan (Hickory) tree (Carya pecan), is a member of the Juglandaceae (Walnut) family and is the most abundant of the Hickories.
The Carya or Hickory genus comprises 17 species, of which 15 are found in the United States, 1 in Mexico and 1 in southern China.
In the United States, Hickories are found principally in the eastern states and not in the Pacific states.
Anecdotal evidence suggests that asthma and hayfever are possible following exposure to pollen from this tree; however, no specific studies on this have been reported to date.
Indolamines are a family of neurotransmitters that share a common molecular structure (namely, indolamine).
A common example of an indolamine is serotonin, which is a neurotransmitter involved in mood and sleep.
Another example of an indolamine is melatonin, which regulates the sleep-wake cycle (circadian rhythm) in humans.
In biochemistry, indoleamines are substituted indole compounds that contain an amino group.
Examples of indoleamines are the tryptamines, such as 5-hydroxytryptamine (serotonin, 5-HT) and the lysergamides.
Also, histamines are a part of the indolamine family.
Histamines are synthesized by the amino acid histidine.
The two antigens of the Yt system, Yt^a and Yt^b, are both expressed at birth, however in a slightly lower expression level than seen on adult cells.
They were shown to be resistant to trypsin treatment, but sensitive to other protein cleaving enzymes.
Antibodies to these antigens were implicated in cases of delayed transfusion reactions but were not reported to have caused hemolytic disease of the newborn.
No examples of Yt(a-b-) individuals have been found despite numerous studies.
From population studies, Yt^b appeared to be lacking, or of very low incidence, from Orientals, Amer-Indians and southern Africans; Yta was found lacking in approximately one per thousand individuals of European origin.
This system remained unexciting until it was found that both of these antigens were weak or absent from paroxysmal nocturnal hemoglobinuria (PNH) III red blood cells.
With a rush of activity in the early 1990's, it was found that the Yt blood group system antigens represented amino acid substitutions on the GPI-linked glycoprotein, acetylcholinesterase (AchE).
This protein probably exists as a dimer (pair) in the red cell membrane.
Yta and Ytb are equated to substitutions of a hisitidine and asparagine, respectively, at amino acid position 322 on the GPI-linked glycoprotein.
AChE has been assigned a chromosome location at 7q22.
Vaborbactam is a beta-lactamase inhibitor in the new cyclic boronic acid class of inhibitors that is being developed in combination with meropenem.
It has activity against serine carbapenemases, especially Klebsiella pneumonia carbapenemase (KPC), and the meropenem-vaborbactam combination is effective against KPC-producing strains of Enterobacteriaceae.
It has been studied as a treatment of complicated urinary tract infection, acute pyelonephritis, and other infections due to carbapenem-resistant Enterobacteriaceae, including hospital-acquired and ventilator-associated pneumonia In August 2017, meropenem-vaborbactam was approved by the U.S. FDA for the treatment of complicated urinary tract infections, including pyelonephritis.
8-hydroxyloxapine is an inactive metabolite of loxipine, an anti-psychotic drug that is used to treat psychotic disorders such as schizophrenia.
8-hydroxyloxapine has higher concentrations in plasma and urine than 7-hydroxyloxapine (the active metabolite of loxapine), which makes 8-hydroxyloxapine a better biomarker for loxapine.)
HIV enters cells by attaching first to the CD4 receptor and then to either the CCR5 or CXCR4 molecules, followed by fusion of the viral and cellular membranes.
CCR5 coreceptor antagonists prevent HIV entry into target cells by binding to the CCR5 receptors.
HIV tropism assays determine whether the HIV binds to CCR5, CXCR4 or both.
An HIV tropism assay should be performed whenever the use of a CCR5 antagonist is being considered or a patient has virologic failure on a CCR5 antagonist.
During acute or recent infection, the vast majority of patients harbor a CCR5-binding virus (called R5 tropism), which suggests that the R5 variant is preferentially transmitted.
Viruses in many untreated patients exhibit a shift in co-receptor tropism from CCR5 usage to either CXCR4 (X4 tropism) or both (D/M-tropic, which stands for dual or mixed), which is associated with a more rapid decline in CD4 T-cell counts.
Patients who have been treated with anti-retroviral drugs and who have extensive drug resistance are more likely to harbor X4- or D/M-tropic variants than untreated patients with comparable CD4 counts.
The prevalence of X4- or D/M-tropic variants increases to more than 50% in treated patients who have CD4 counts <100 cells/mm3.
Prostate specific antigen (PSA) is a protein produced by the cells of the prostate gland.
PSA is present in small quantities in the serum of normal men, and is often elevated in the presence of prostate cancer and in other prostate disorders.
A blood test to measure PSA is the most effective test currently available for the early detection of prostate cancer.
Higher than normal levels of PSA are associated with both localized and metastatic prostate cancer (CaP).
P. radiata should not to be confused with the Australian pine (Casuarina equisetifolia) t73 or White pine (Pinus strobus) t16.
Pine tree pollen may cause asthma, allergic rhinitis and allergic conjunctivitis.
Pinus pollen allergy has been generally considered to be rare and clinically insignificant.
Race bridging refers to making data collected using one set of race categories consistent with data collected using a different set of race categories, to permit estimation and comparison of race-specific statistics at a point in time or over time.
More specifically, race bridging is a method used to make multiple-race and single-race data collection systems sufficiently comparable to permit estimation and analysis of race-specific statistics.
Erysipelothrix rhusiopathiae is one species of Erysipelothrix, which are facultative anaerobic, gram-positive rods that are distributed worldwide and have been isolated from both birds and mammals.
Other species of Erysipelothrix are E. tonsillarum, E. sp strain 1, and E. sp strain 2.
The clinical disease caused by these organisms is called "erysipelas" in animals and "erysipeloid" in humans.
Disease caused by E. rhusiopathiae that affects swine and turkeys has the most economic impact.
Swine erysipelas is most often caused by serotypes 1a, 1b and 2, which are all members of the rhusiopathiae species.
Three presentations are recognized: acute, subacute, and chronic.
Up to half of healthy pigs may harbor E. rhusiopathiae in tonsils and lymphatic tissue.
Acute erysipelas outbreaks are likely due to shedding by subclinically affected animals in urine, feces, saliva, and nasal secretions.
Diethyl sulfate is a highly toxic and likely carcinogenic chemical compound with formula (C2H5)2SO4.
It occurs as a colorless liquid with a peppermint odor.
Diethyl sulfate is used as an alkylating agent to prepare ethyl derivatives of phenols, amines, and thiols.
The LMX1B gene (LIM homeobox transcription factor 1, beta) is located on chromosome 9q33.3.
This gene encodes a member of LIM-homeodomain family of proteins containing two N-terminal zinc-binding LIM domains, 1 homeodomain, and a C-terminal glutamine-rich domain.
It functions as a transcription factor, and is essential for the normal development of dorsal limb structures, the glomerular basement membrane, the anterior segment of the eye, and dopaminergic and serotonergic neurons.
Mutations in this gene are associated with nail-patella syndrome.
Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
A desmosomal cadherin that is an autoantigen in the acquired skin disorder PEMPHIGUS FOLIACEUS.
Hyroxybupropion is a metabolite of bupropion.
Reduced haloperidol is the major metabolite of haloperidol.
The ratio between the two has been used to predict clinical response and patient compliance.
Glutaryl-CoA dehydrogenase is an enzyme acting upon glutaryl-coenzyme A, creating crotonyl-coenzyme A.
It plays a role in the metabolism of lysine, hydroxylysine and tryptophan.
A defect in this enzyme is associated with neurological condition glutaric acidemia type 1, which is often fatal.
Rotaviruses cause significant gastrointestinal disease, primarily in children under 5 years old.
Rotaviruses comprise a genus within the family Reoviridae with nine existing groups.
Groups A, B and C (RVA, RVB and RVC) infect humans while all existing groups can infect animals.
RV causes diarrhea by destroying the enterocytes in the small intestine.
Recent studies confirm that rotavirus infection can also extend beyond the intestine.
Examples of extraintestinal infection include the findings of the virus in the liver during autopsy, elevated liver enzymes during active infection and the demonstration of the virus replicating both in the liver and kidneys of a child suffering from immunodeficiency.
Rotaviruses (RVs) also cause severe diarrhea in animals.
Research has revealed that pigs can suffer both single and mixed concurrent infections with more than one Rotavirus group.
In one study, pigs that had been vaccinated against one strain of RVA were still part of a diarrhea outbreak later and found to have both single and mixed infections that included RVB, RVC and RVH as well as RVA strains that were not part of the vaccine.
This suggests that diagnostic testing for multiple RV groups should be included when testing a swine herd for enteric diseases even after they have been vaccinated against a single strain.
Cefaloridine (or cephaloridine) is a cephalosporin.
It is unique among cephalosporins in that it exists as a zwitterion.
Before the 1970s, cephaloridine was used to treat patients with urinary tract infections.
Besides the drugs has been used successfully in the treatment of various lower respiratory tract infections.
Cephaloridine was very effective to cure pneumococcal pneumonia.
It has a high clinical and bacteriological rate of success in staphylococcal and streptococcal infections
The Wells score is a clinical decision support tool for identifying the probability of a patient having pulmonary embolism (PE).
It includes 7 variables, including heart rate, signs and symptoms, past medical history, and likelihood of an alternative diagnosis as determined by the physician.
A higher total score is associated with an increased probability of PE.
CD158e (also known as KIR3DL1) is a killer cell inhibitory receptor.
It is involved in the regulation of NK cell mediated cytolytic activity upon interaction with the appropriate HLA-C alleles.
Leptospira interrogans serovar Robinsoni is mainly found in coastal areas of north Queensland in Australia.
Rainforest animals such as bandicoots, rats and feral pigs are the main carriers, and probable sources of infection include contact with soil, water or other materials contaminated with the urine of an infected animal.
The Robinsoni serovar has been associated with pulmonary hemorrhage, and late diagnosis and treatment can lead to severe medical complications.
The combination of Amoxicillin and clavulanate -- also known as Augmentin -- is an oral antibacterial combination consisting of the semisynthetic antibiotic amoxicillin and the -lactamase inhibitor, clavulanate.
It is used in the treatment of otitis media, sinusitis, and infections caused by susceptible organisms involving the lower respiratory tract, skin and skin structure, and urinary tract; spectrum same as amoxicillin with additional coverage of beta-lactamase producing B. catarrhalis, H. influenzae, N. gonorrhoeae, and S. aureus (not MRSA).
The expanded coverage of this combination makes it a useful alternative when penicillin resistance is present and patients cannot tolerate alternative treatments.
Botulinum toxin is a neurotoxin produced by Clostridium botulinum, an anaerobic, gram-positive, spore-forming rod found on plants, in soil, water and the intestinal tracts of animals.
Eight exotoxins (A, B, C1, C2, D, E, F and G) have been identified, all of which interfere with neural transmission by blocking the release of acetylcholine, the principal neurotransmitter at the neuromuscular junction.
The toxins are used in the clinical management of various spastic medical conditions, strabismus and focal dystonias, hemifacial spasms, headaches, hyper-salivation and hyperhidrosis.
Type A is the most potent toxin.
In 2002 it was approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration for cosmetological uses.
It is administered by injection into muscles or glands with the effects lasting approximately three months.
Most patients require multiple treatments over many years and some develop tolerance to the injections due to the development of neutralizing antibodies to the toxin.
Side effects are minor and transient.
An alkylating agent having a selective immunosuppressive effect on bone marrow.
It has been used in the palliative treatment of chronic myeloid leukemia, but although symptomatic relief is provided, no permanent remission is brought about.
According to the Fourth Annual Report on Carcinogens (NTP 85-002, 1985), busulfan is listed as a known carcinogen.
Strychnine is a very toxic (LD50 = 1 mgkg), colorless crystalline alkaloid used as a pesticide, particularly for killing small vertebrates such as rodents.
Strychnine causes muscular convulsions and eventually asphyxia or sheer exhaustion.
The most common source is from the seeds of the Strychnos nux-vomica tree.
Strychnine is one of the most bitter substances in the world.
Its taste is detectable in concentrations as low as 1 ppm.
Strychnine acts as a blocker or antagonist at the inhibitory or strychnine-sensitive glycine receptor (GlyR), a ligand -gated chloride channel in the spinal cord and the brain.
The CTSK gene (cathepsin K) is located on chromosome 1q21.
The protein encoded by this gene is a lysosomal cysteine proteinase involved in bone remodeling and resorption.
This protein, which is a member of the peptidase C1 protein family, is predominantly expressed in osteoclasts.
However, the encoded protein is also expressed in a significant fraction of human breast cancers, where it could contribute to tumor invasiveness.
Mutations in this gene are the cause of pycnodysostosis, an autosomal recessive disease characterized by osteosclerosis and short stature.
HPV type 11 can cause benign or low-grade cervical cell abnormalities, genital warts and laryngeal papillomas.
Tryptamine is a monoamine alkaloid found in plants, fungi, and animals.
It is based around the indole ring structure, and is chemically related to the amino acid tryptophan, from which its name is derived.
Tryptamine is found in trace amounts in the brains of mammals and is believed to play a role as a neuromodulator or neurotransmitter.
Tryptamine is also the backbone for a group of compounds known collectively as tryptamines.
This group includes many biologically active compounds, including neurotransmitters and psychedelic drugs.
African swine fever virus (ASFV) is the causative agent of African swine fever.
ASFV infects domestic pigs, warthogs and bushpigs, as well as soft ticks.
The virus causes a lethal haemorraghic disease in domestic pigs, some isolates can cause death of animals within as little as a week after infection.
In all of the other species the virus causes no obvious disease.
ASFV is endemic to Sub-Saharan Africa and exists in the wild through a cycle of infection between ticks and wild pigsbushpigswarthogs.
ASFV was first described after European settlers brought pigs into areas endemic with ASFV and as such is an example of an 'emerging infection'.
The virus itself is a large DNA virus with a genome containing at least 150 genes.
The number of genes differs slightly between different isolates of the virus.
ASFV has similarities to the other large DNA viruses e.g., poxvirus, iridovirus, mimivirus.
More recently ASFV has been associated with AIDS as a possible causal agent.
The TYROBP gene (TYRO protein tyrosine kinase binding protein) is located on chromosome 19q13.1.
This gene encodes a transmembrane signaling polypeptide which contains an immunoreceptor tyrosine-based activation motif (ITAM) in its cytoplasmic domain.
The encoded protein may associate with the killer-cell inhibitory receptor (KIR) family of membrane glycoproteins and may act as an activating signal transduction element.
This protein may bind zeta-chain (TCR) associated protein kinase 70kDa (ZAP-70) and spleen tyrosine kinase (SYK) and play a role in signal transduction, bone modeling, brain myelination, and inflammation.
Mutations within this gene have been associated with polycystic lipomembranous osteodysplasia with sclerosing leukoencephalopathy (PLOSL), also known as Nasu-Hakola disease.
Its putative receptor, triggering receptor expressed on myeloid cells 2 (TREM2), also causes PLOSL.
Multiple alternative transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms have been identified for this gene.
A histamine H1 antagonist used as an antiemetic, antitussive, for dermatoses and pruritus, for hypersensitivity reactions, as a hypnotic, an antiparkinson, and as an ingredient in common cold preparations.
It has some undesired antimuscarinic and sedative effects.
Pheneticillin (or phenethicillin) is a penicillin.
Phosphatidylglycerol is a glycerophospholipid found in pulmonary surfactant.
The general structure of phosphatidylglycerol consists of a L-glycerol 3-phosphate backbone ester-bonded to either saturated or unsaturated fatty acids on carbons 1 and 2.
The head group substituent glycerol is bonded through a phosphomonoester.
It is the precursor of surfactant and its presence in the amniotic fluid of the newborn indicates fetal lung maturity.
Approximately 98% of alveolar wall surface area is due to the presence of type I cells, with type II cells producing pulmonary surfactant covering around 2% of the alveolar walls.
Once surfactant is secreted by the type II cells, it must be spread over the remaining type I cellular surface area.
Phosphatidylglycerol is thought to be important in spreading of surfactant over the Type I cellular surface area.
The major surfactant deficiency in premature infants is associated with the lack of phosphatidylglycerol, even though it comprises less than 5% of pulmonary surfactant phospholipids.
Substituted amphetamines are a chemical class of stimulants, entactogens, hallucinogens, and other drugs.
They feature a phenethylamine core with a methyl group attached to the alpha carbon resulting in amphetamine, along with additional substitutions.
Examples of amphetamines are amphetamine, methamphetamine, ephedrine, cathinone, MDMA ("Ecstasy"), and DOM ("STP").
Amphetamine derivatives occur in nature, for example in the leaves of Ephedra and khat plants.
These have been used since antiquity for their pharmacological effects.
Such synthetic amphetamines found use as decongestants in the symptomatic treatment of colds and also occasionally as psychoactive agents.
Their effects on the central nervous system are diverse, but can be summarized by three overlapping types of activity: psychoanaleptic, hallucinogenic and empathogenic.
Various amphetamines may cause these actions either separately or in combination.
Improper consumption of amphetamine derivatives may result in addiction and aggressiveness, as well as in rapid deterioration of basic body functions and death.
Therefore, production and distribution of most related drugs are controlled by the authorities both nationally and internationally.
The PEX1 gene (peroxisomal biogenesis factor 1) is located on chromosome 7q21.2.
This gene encodes a member of the AAA ATPase family, a large group of ATPases associated with diverse cellular activities.
This protein is cytoplasmic but is often anchored to a peroxisomal membrane where it forms a heteromeric complex and plays a role in the import of proteins into peroxisomes and peroxisome biogenesis.
Mutations in this gene have been associated with complementation group 1 peroxisomal disorders such as neonatal adrenoleukodystrophy, infantile Refsum disease, and Zellweger syndrome.
Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been found for this gene.
Micrometastases are metastatic deposits that are greater than 0.2 mm but less than 2 mm in diameter, and at least 200 cells across.
Amiloride is a potassium-sparing diuretic, first approved for use in 1967, used in the management of hypertension and congestive heart failure.
CD15 (3-fucosyl-N-acetyl-lactosamine) is a cluster of differentiation - an immunologically significant molecule.
CD15 is a carbohydrate adhesion molecule (not a protein) that can be expressed on Glycoproteins, Glycolipids and Proteoglycans.
It mediates phagocytosis and chemotaxis, found on neutrophils; expressed in patients with Hodgkin disease, some B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemias, acute lymphoblastic leukemias, and most acute nonlymphocytic leukemias.
It is also called Lewis x and SSEA-1 (stage specific embryonic antigen 1) and represents a marker for murine pluripotent stem cells, in which it plays an important role in adhesion and migration of the cells in the preimplantation embryo.
It is synthezised by FUT 4 (fucosyltransferase 4).
Interleukin 17 (IL-17) is a group of cytokines called the IL-17 family.
To date, six IL-17 ligands (IL-17A, IL-17B, IL-17C, IL-17D, IL-17E and IL-17F), and five receptors (IL-17RA, IL-17RB/IL-25R, IL-17RC, IL-17RD/SEF and IL-17RE) have been identified.
IL-17A is the most commonly studied, but interest in the rest of the IL-17 family is growing.
They have been linked to the pathogenesis of diverse autoimmune and inflammatory diseases.
Tapentadol glucuronide is a metabolite of tapentadol (fentanyl), a centrally-acting analgesic with a dual mode of action as an opioid agonist and a norepinephrine reuptake inhibitor.
TAP and its metabolites, including nortapentadol (N-desmethyltapentadol) and tapentadol glucuronide, may be measured to monitor compliance or identify illicit opioid drug use.
Gambel oak (Quercus gambelii) is a deciduous small tree or large shrub widespread in the foothills and lower mountain elevations of the central southwestern United States and northwestern Mexico: its range is centered on the Colorado Plateau-Four Corners states of Utah-Colorado, Arizona-New Mexico, but ranges into Nevada, Wyoming, South Dakota, Kansas, Oklahoma, and west Texas
Cholesterol is an essential lipid present in all cells.
Cholesterol is needed in order to construct hormones, metabolites, and Vitamin D. Cholesterol travels throughout the bloodstream with the aid of two lipoproteins: high-density lipoprotein (HDL) and low-density lipoprotein (LDL).
LDL carries cholesterol from the liver to other parts of the body and HDL carries cholesterol from other parts of the body to the liver where it can be broken down.
HDL is considered "good cholesterol" because it removes excess cholesterol from the blood and into the liver where it can be disposed of properly.
A higher level of HDL can decrease the risk for heart disease and atherosclerosis.
When observing the blood HDL levels, less than 40 mg/dL is too low (high risk for heart disease), 40-59 mg/dL is average, and 60 mg/dL or higher is optimal (low risk for heart disease).
The "Complex Medical Condition Action Plan" is a communication tool medical providers use to inform school staff of a patient's complex medical condition and treatment protocol.
School staff uses this information to guide and authorize their treatment of the child's complex medical condition while at school.
A mitosporic Tremellales fungal genus whose species usually have a capsule and do not form pseudomycellium.
Teleomorphs include Filobasidiella and Fidobasidium.
Leucine crystals appear as yellowish-brown spheres with concentric circles and radial striations in center.
Their presence in the urine may be indicative of a metabolic disorder or liver disease.
Chlorphenamine (INN) or chlorpheniramine (USAN, former BAN), commonly marketed as its salt chlorphenamine maleate (CPM; Chlor-Trimeton®, Piriton®, Chlor-Tripolon®), is a first-generation antihistamine used in the prevention of the symptoms of allergic conditions such as rhinitis and urticaria.
Chlorphenamine has antidepressant properties, inhibiting reuptake of the neurotransmitter serotonin.
Based on this knowledge, the Swedish company Astra AB was able to derive the first marketed selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor, zimelidine, from chlorphenamine.
The MSH2 gene (mutS homolog 2) is located on chromosomal band 2p21.
This locus is frequently mutated in hereditary nonpolyposis colon cancer (HNPCC), also known as Lynch syndrome.
When cloned, it was discovered to be a human homolog of the E. coli mismatch repair gene mutS, consistent with the characteristic alterations in microsatellite sequences (RER+ phenotype) found in HNPCC.
Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
An element that is an alkali metal.
It has an atomic symbol Rb, atomic number 37, and atomic weight 85.47.
It is used as a chemical reagent and in the manufacture of photoelectric cells.
The POLG gene (polymerase (DNA directed), gamma) is located on chromosome 15q25.
Mitochondrial DNA polymerase is heterotrimeric, consisting of a homodimer of accessory subunits plus a catalytic subunit.
The protein encoded by this gene is the catalytic subunit of mitochondrial DNA polymerase.
The encoded protein contains a polyglutamine tract near its N-terminus that may be polymorphic.
Defects in this gene are a cause of progressive external ophthalmoplegia with mitochondrial DNA deletions 1 (PEOA1), sensory ataxic neuropathy dysarthria and ophthalmoparesis (SANDO), Alpers-Huttenlocher syndrome (AHS), and mitochondrial neurogastrointestinal encephalopathy syndrome (MNGIE).
Two transcript variants encoding the same protein have been found for this gene.
Amb a 1 from Ragweed is a specific marker allergen suitable for discriminating between genuine Ragweed sensitization and crossreactivity.
Gadolinium is a long-used contrast agent used for magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) studies.
It is a lanthanide series metal, which is administered in chelated form to minimize its natural cytotoxicity.
Most of administered gadolinium chelate is excreted promptly in urine with a half life of 60-90 minutes.
Lower doses used recently have alleviated concern of kidney and liver damage, although nephrogenic systemic fibrosis is still a concern.
Skin-sensitivity, anaphylaxis and other symptoms related to food allergy have been reported.
Four species of the Plasmodium protozoa are considered true parasites of humans as they use humans almost exclusively as a natural intermediate host: P. falciparum, P. vivax, P. ovale and P. malariae.
Malaria today is usually restricted to tropical and subtropical areas and altitudes below 1,500 m., although in the past malaria was endemic in much of North America, Europe and even parts of northern Asia, and today is still present on the Korean peninsula.
However, this present distribution could be affected by climatic changes and population movements.
P. falciparum is the most prevalent species and responsible for the most morbidity and mortality worldwide.
Early detect is of paramount importance due to the incidence of cerebral malaria and drug resistance.
Malarial infections caused by P. falciparum are the most likely to progress to severe, potentially fatal forms with central nervous system involvement (cerebral malaria), acute renal failure, severe anemia, or acute respiratory distress syndrome.
Natural (native) Prunus persica (nPru p) 3 is a lipid transfer protein (LTP) isolated from peach skin and pulp.
It is used to evaluate specific IgE reactivity in patients with suspected peach allergy.
While peach LTP is typically the primary allergic sensitizer, cross-reactivity to LTP of other taxonomically related or unrelated plants may be responsible for peach allergy in some patients.
The classification "abnormal lymphocyte" includes both variant lymphocytes (also known as atypical or reactive) and malignant lymphocytes (i.e., lymphoma cells).
Lymphoma cells are sometimes difficult to distinguish from variant lymphocytes by microscopy alone.
A few features that can help distinguish the two are the nuclear to cytoplasmic ratio, the shape of the nucleus, and cell heterogeneity.
Variant lymphocytes have moderately abundant cytoplasm and oval nuclei with with notches or indentations and are heterogeneous in size and shape within a single smear.
Lymphoma cells have less cytoplasm, nuclei that are round or oval with slight indentations and tend to have a more homogeneous appearance within a single smear.
(American Society for Clinical Pathology/American Proficiency Institute.
2014 1st Test Event: EDUCATIONAL COMMENTARY - BLOOD CELL ID: IDENTIFYING ABNORMAL LYMPHOID CELLS. )
In the context of anesthesia, fresh gas is the combination of all of the gases and anesthetic agents coming as a single stream from the gas delivery system.
The anesthesiologist can adjust the relative proportion of each fresh gas component over time according to the patient's clinical status.
Salinomycin is an antibacterial and coccidiostat ionophore therapeutic drug.
Salinomycin has been shown to kill breast cancer stem cells at least 100 times more effectively than another popular anti-cancer drug (paclitaxel) in mice.
The mechanism of action by which Salinomycin kills cancer stem cells specifically remains unknown, but is thought to be due to its action as a potassium ionophore due to the detection of Nigericin in the same compound screen.
Salinomycin has high toxicity and a narrow therapeutic window which may limit its clinical use.
Salinomycin is used in chicken fodder as a coccidiostat.
Cefaclor, also known as cefachlor, (brand names Ceclor®, Distaclor®, Keflor®, Raniclor®) is a 2nd-generation cephalosporin antibiotic used to treat certain infections caused by bacteria such as pneumonia and ear, lung, skin, throat, and urinary tract infections.
Dermatophilus congolensis is a gram positive bacterium and is the etiologic agent of a disease called Dermatophilosis (sometimes called Mud fever) in animals and humans, a dermatologic condition that manifests itself with the formation of crusty scabs that contain the microorganism.
Some people erroneously call it mycotic dermatitis.
Rainscald is another condition often seen in animals, which is also caused by Dermatophilus congolensis bacteria.
Hypertrophic cardiomyopathy (HCM) is a relatively common genetic cardiac disease (~0.2% of the general population) defined by the presence of unexplained left ventricular hypertrophy (LVH).
The clinical spectrum of HCM is heterogeneous with respect to disease-causing mutations, presentation, prognosis, and treatment strategies.
HCM is most commonly caused by mutations in one of the genes (e.g. MYH7, MYBPC3, TNNT2, TNNI3, TPM1) that encode different components of the sarcomere.
Such mutations are found in approximately 50%-60% individuals with a family history of HCM, and approximately 20%-30% of individuals without a family history of HCM.
Other nonsarcomeric genes, such as CSRP3 (encoding muscle LIM protein), are also found to be associated with HCM by genome-wide linkage studies.
A variety of multi-gene analysis panels are available for HCM.
The genes included and corresponding detection rate will vary between laboratories and over time within the same laboratory.
Mayaro virus is a species of virus in the genus Alphavirus, family Togaviridae.
The virus is a mosquito-borne, zoonotic and epizootic pathogen that causes both human and animal epidemics.
It is present in South America and the Caribbean and is associated with fever, joint and muscle pain, and headaches.
Whole-exome sequencing (WES) is targeted sequence analysis of the protein-coding region of the human genome.
The exome represents less than 2% of the genome but is estimated to contain about 85% of known disease-related variants.
Variant types include single nucleotide variants (SNVs), small DNA insertions or deletions (indels), copy number variants (CNVs), or other structural variants (SVs).
WES and whole-genome sequencing (WGS) are performed to identify the cause of heritable diseases and for various other applications, including population genetics and cancer studies.
Sequencing only the coding regions of the genome is currently less expensive than WGS since less genetic material is sequenced.
A species of fish in the cod family Gadidae, known as the Atlantic cod, It is one of the most important commercial fishes.
alpha-Hydroxyglutaric acid (2-hydroxyglutaric acid) is an alpha hydroxy acid.
In humans the compound is formed by a Hydroxyacid-oxoacid transhydrogenase whereas in bacteria is formed by a 2-hydroxyglutarate synthase.
The compound can be converted to alpha-Ketoglutaric acid through the action of a 2-hydroxyglutarate dehydrogenase which, in humans, are two enzymes called D2HGDH and L2HGDH.
Deficiency in either of these two enzymes lead to a disease known as 2-Hydroxyglutaric aciduria.
This panel represents the COOP/WONCA Charts for adult/geriatric patients with a 1-10 numeric rating scale.
Images included with each term display the charts and indicate in color (red, green, yellow) the usual score "cutoffs" in clinical settings.
The Dartmouth-Northern New England Primary Care Cooperative Information Project (Dartmouth CO-OP Project) chart system has been developed to assess the functional status of adults and adolescents.
The dimensions of health status measured by the health charts are: Physical, Emotional, Daily Activities, Social Activities, Social Support, Pain, and Overall Health.
Two main versions of the COOP Charts exist: the original CO-OP charts and the CO-OP/WONCA version (this panel).
The WONCA version has been developed as the international standard for classifying the functional status of adult patients in primary care settings.
This version differs from the original CO-OP Charts by asking about function in the previous 2 weeks (rather than 4 weeks).
Several variations of the COOP charts also exists and scoring across instruments varies (e.g. 1-10 where 10 is worst, 1-5 where 5 is worst, and some even reverse the numbers).
For scoring, typically the patient's answers, or scores, for each chart are recorded as-is in the patient's medical record; no scoring algorithm or computing is necessary.
A summative total score is not recommended by the developers, however some users may be recording it.
Myrica is a genus of about 35-50 species of small trees and shrubs in the family Myricaceae, order Fagales.
The genus has a wide distribution, including Africa, Asia, Europe, North America and South America, and missing only from Australasia
A species of gram-negative bacteria in the genus Anaplasma, family Anaplasmataceae, formerly called Ehrlichia phagocytophila or Ehrlichia equi.
This organism is tick-borne (Ixodes) and causes disease in horses and sheep.
In humans, it causes human granulocytic ehrlichiosis.
The ANA spindle fibers pattern is not specific for any one or group of autoimmune disorders.
It is associated with the antigen HsEg5 (kinesin Eg5), also called NuMA2 (nuclear mitotic apparatus 2).
The CACNA1A gene (calcium channel, voltage-dependent, P/Q type, alpha 1A subunit) is located on chromosome 19p13.
Voltage-dependent calcium channels mediate the entry of calcium ions into excitable cells, and are also involved in a variety of calcium-dependent processes, including muscle contraction, hormone or neurotransmitter release, and gene expression.
Calcium channels are multisubunit complexes composed of alpha-1, beta, alpha-2/delta, and gamma subunits.
The channel activity is directed by the pore-forming alpha-1 subunit, whereas, the others act as auxiliary subunits regulating this activity.
The distinctive properties of the calcium channel types are related primarily to the expression of a variety of alpha-1 isoforms, alpha-1A, B, C, D, E, and S.
This gene encodes the alpha-1A subunit, which is predominantly expressed in neuronal tissue.
Mutations in this gene are associated with 2 neurologic disorders, familial hemiplegic migraine and episodic ataxia 2.
This gene also exhibits polymorphic variation due to (CAG)n-repeats.
Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
In one set of transcript variants, the (CAG)n-repeats occur in the 3' UTR, and are not associated with any disease.
But in another set of variants, an insertion extends the coding region to include the (CAG)n-repeats which encode a polyglutamine tract.
Expansion of the (CAG)n-repeats from the normal 4-16 to 21-28 in the coding region is associated with spinocerebellar ataxia 6.
Ultimately converted by UV into calciferol (vitamin D2) but not equivalent as crystalline steroid alcohol to vitamin S2.
Mycobacterium katG region gene mutation for INH resistance
Infectious bronchitis (IB) is an important poultry disease worldwide.
It is caused by infectious bronchitis virus (IBV) and affects galliform and nongalliform birds.
The impact on the economy is decreased egg production and poor egg quality as well as stunted growth, poor carcass weight and mortality in some chickens.
IBV not only infects the respiratory tract but can also affect the renal and reproductive systems.
Diagnostic methods for IBV have greatly improved over time, less sensitive and time consuming serology tests and viral cultures have been replaced by methods such as reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR), Restriction Fragment Length Polymorphism (RFLP), and sequencing.
Platelet packed cell volume
The GPC3 gene (glypican 3) is located on chromosome Xq26.1.
Cell surface heparan sulfate proteoglycans are composed of a membrane-associated protein core substituted with a variable number of heparan sulfate chains.
Members of the glypican-related integral membrane proteoglycan family (GRIPS) contain a core protein anchored to the cytoplasmic membrane via a glycosyl phosphatidylinositol linkage.
These proteins may play a role in the control of cell division and growth regulation.
The protein encoded by this gene can bind to and inhibit the dipeptidyl peptidase activity of CD26, and it can induce apoptosis in certain cell types.
Deletion mutations in this gene are associated with Simpson-Golabi-Behmel syndrome, also known as Simpson dysmorphia syndrome.
Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants.
foliosum is part of the Chicorium genus, commonly known as radicchio, and is a perennial herb which has medicinal properties, such as a diuretic and an anti-inflammatory.
Pentylenetetrazol (INN), also known as metrazol, pentetrazol, pentamethylenetetrazol, Cardiazol or PTZ, is a drug used as a circulatory and respiratory stimulant.
High doses cause convulsions.
Burst suppression (BS) is a pattern in electroencephalography (EEG) which consists of alternate patterns of slow waves or high amplitude (bursts) and periods of flat EEG (suppression).
It is seen in comas due to various causes including hypoxia, drug-related intoxication, hypothermia, childhood encephalopathies and anesthesia.
The burst suppression ratio is the standard measure used to quantify burst suppression.
It is the fraction of EEG spent in suppression per period.
A genus of gram-positive, rod-shaped bacteria whose organisms are nonmotile.
Filaments that may be present in certain species are either straight or wavy and may have swollen or clubbed heads.
Bartonella quintana is a slim, fastidious coccobacillus spread through body lice.
It is most commonly associated with trench fever, but can cause bacillary splenitis, bacteremia, as well as other diseases.
B. quintana is present across the globe and is most commonly found in impoverished, crowded and unhygienic conditions such as refugee or homeless camps..
A combination of polymerase chain reaction (PCR) assays and indirect immunofluorescence assay (IFA) are used to detect Bartonella quintana and distinguish it from other Bartonella species.
A benzodiazepine that acts as a GAMMA-AMINOBUTYRIC ACID modulator and anti-anxiety agent.
Parechovirus is a viral genus in the family Picornaviridae and contains two species, Human parechovirus (HPeV) and Ljungan virus (LV).
HPeVs cause various diseases, including aseptic meningitis, gastroenteritis, encephalitis, acute respiratory illness, and neonatal sepsis-like disease.
LVs may be involved with diseases such as type 1 diabetes mellitus, myocarditis, and Guillain-Barre syndrome.
Methods such as real-time reverse transcription-PCR (RT-PCR) are performed to detect members of the genus Parechovirus.
Some RT-PCR assay can detect both HPeVs and LVs targeting the conserved regions in the 5' nontranslated region (5'NTR) of the parechovirus genome.
Other assays target only known HPeVs or only LVs.
Telomeres are DNA-protein structures located at the end of each chromosome and containing long stretches of (TTAGGG) in repeats of variable length (3-20kb).
They protect chromosomes from deterioration and prevent fusion with other chromosomes.
The region adjacent to the telomeric repeats is called the subtelomere, which also contains segments of repetitive stretches of DNA.
Subtelomeres are found to be relatively gene-rich due to frequent duplication and recombination events.
Deletions and rearrangements in subtelomere regions have been associated with mental retardation and congenital abnormalities.
Cytogenetic analysis of subtelomeres is difficult due to low resolution using conventional banding techniques.
FISH probes specific for subtelomeric regions on both the long and short arms of chromosomes are useful for detecting subtle rearrangements.
Finafloxacin is a novel member of the fluoroquinolone class of antibiotics.
A biologically active tridecapeptide isolated from the hypothalamus.
It has been shown to induce hypotension in the rat, to stimulate contraction of guinea pig ileum and rat uterus, and to cause relaxation of rat duodenum.
There is also evidence that it acts as both a peripheral and a central nervous system neurotransmitter.
Norclobazam is a metabolite of clobazam.
The ESRD Death Notification (CMS-2746) is completed by all Medicare-approved ESRD facilities to collect fact of death and cause of death of ESRD patients.
ESRD Networks must examine the mortality rates of every Medicare approved facility within its area of responsibility.
The Death Form provides the necessary data to assist the ESRD Networks to make decisions that result in improved patient care and in cost-effective distribution of resources.
The Death Form is also used by health care planning agencies and researchers to determine survival rates by diagnoses.
Propranolol is a non-selective beta blocker mainly used in the treatment of hypertension.
It was the first successful beta blocker developed.
Propranolol is commonly marketed by Wyeth under the trade name Inderal.
The coagulation of blood is a complex process during which blood forms solid clots.
It is an important part of hemostasis (the cessation of blood loss from a damaged vessel) whereby a damaged blood vessel wall is covered by a fibrin clot to stop hemorrhage and aid repair of the damaged vessel.
Disorders in coagulation can lead to increased hemorrhage and/or thrombosis and embolism.
Coagulation is similar in all mammals; they all use a combined cellular and serine protease mechanism.
Apis mellifera (Honey Bee) was native to Africa, Europe and the Middle East but is now found worldwide.
Sensitivity to honey bee venom is estimated to be 15-25% of the population and higher for people living in rural areas..
Testing for Api m 10 could be important in accurately diagnosing and treating a significant portion of the population allergic to honey bee venom.
Tropical vines on which long, hanging pods enclose several kidney-shaped seeds.
The edible, pea-like seeds are creamy in color with a black hilum (the characteristic black spot).
The seeds are usually dried and stored before being cooked and eaten.
Originally native to Asia, now an important food, forage, and cover crop elsewhere.
They are staple part of southern US cooking.
Antibacterial agent used primarily as a tuberculostatic.
It remains the treatment of choice for tuberculosis.
Paired box protein Pax-5 is a protein that in humans is encoded by the PAX5 gene
A biochemical messenger and regulator, synthesized from the essential amino acid L-TRYPTOPHAN.
In humans it is found primarily in the central nervous system, gastrointestinal tract, and blood platelets.
Serotonin mediates several important physiological functions including neurotransmission, gastrointestinal motility, hemostasis, and cardiovascular integrity.
Multiple receptor families (RECEPTORS, SEROTONIN) explain the broad physiological actions and distribution of this biochemical mediator.
The anterior chamber angle is the anatomical angle formed between the eye's cornea and iris (the "iridocorneal angle").
Gonioscopy is the use of a goniolens (also known as a gonioscope) in conjunction with a slit lamp or operating microscope to gain a view of the iridocorneal angle.
16-Alpha hydroxypregnenolone is, among other steroids like pregnanetriol (P3), an important marker in the urinary steroid excretion profile for the occurrence of an adrenal 21-hydroxylase-deficiency.
Its levels are an indication for the effectiveness of medication (cortisol supplement) against this disease.
Antipsychotics (also known as neuroleptics or major tranquilizers) are a class of psychiatric medication primarily used to manage psychosis (including delusions, hallucinations, or disordered thought), particularly in schizophrenia and bipolar disorder, and is increasingly being used in the management of non-psychotic disorders.
Diethylpropion is a sympathomimetic amine (similar to amphetamine) that acts as an appetite suppressant and is used to treat obesity.
It is a prodrug that is metabolized into active N, N-diethylnorephedrine metabolites that stimulate the release of norepinephrine (noradrenaline) and inhibit its reuptake.
Red Cell Distribution Width (RDW) is a measurement of anisocytosis.
RDW is elevated in iron deficiency anemia and beta thalassemia major and usually normal in beta thalassemia minor.
RDW has also been shown to be significantly increased in pregnant women during gestational week 34 through labor onset.
Information from Laboratory Test Handbook, Jacobs DS, DeMott WR,Oxley DK;LexiComp,2001.
1,8-Dihydroxyanthraquinone is an organic substance with formula C14H8O4, formally derived from anthraquinone by the replacement of two hydrogen atoms by hydroxyl groups (OH).
It is used in some countries as a stimulant laxative, under the generic names dantron or chrysazin.
The number of times the patient was seen by the reporting healthcare entity in the past 12 months.
Distance from hard tissue A point to soft tissue A point
A species of ALPHAVIRUS isolated in central, eastern, and southern Africa.
Allo-tetrahydrocortisol (5a-Tetrahydrocortisol) is a normal human metabolite.
However its increased ratio (5alpha-Tetrahydrocortisol + Tetrahydrocortisol) over Tetrahydrocortisone in urine is the biochemical marker for the syndrome of apparent mineralocorticoid excess (AME).
AME is a heritable form of hypertension due to an inborn error of cortisol metabolism and is characterized by hypokalemia and low renin levels despite subnormal or normal levels of aldosterone and other known mineralocorticoids.
The syndrome is attributable to congenital deficiency of the enzyme 11 beta-hydroxydehydrogenase (11 beta-HSD), which converts cortisol to biologically inactive cortisone.
This results in a prolonged half-life of Cortisol, which acts at the kidney level as a potent mineralocorticoid. .
Giardia is the microscopic organism that causes giardiasis, an intestinal infection that affects people or animals.
Giardia is found in water and on contaminated surfaces.
The troponin test is used to help diagnose a heart attack, to detect and evaluate mild to severe heart injury, and to distinguish chest pain that may be due to other causes.
Troponin values can remain high for 1-2 weeks after a heart attack.
The test is not affected by damage to other muscles, so injections, accidents, and drugs that can damage muscle do not affect troponin levels.
Troponin may rise following strenuous exercise, although in the absence of signs and symptoms of heart disease, it is usually of no medical significance.
Beta interferon is a recombinant protein which is chemically identical to or similar to endogenous interferon beta with antiviral and anti-tumor activities.
Endogenous interferons beta are cytokines produced by nucleated cells (predominantly natural killer cells) upon exposure to live or inactivated virus, double-stranded RNA or bacterial products.
These agents bind to specific cell-surface receptors, resulting in the transcription and translation of genes with an interferon-specific response element.
The proteins so produced mediate many complex effects, including antiviral (the most important being inhibition of viral protein synthesis), antiproliferative and immune modulating effects.
The recombinant therapeutic forms of interferon beta are interferon beta 1-a and interferon beta 1-b.
Cetuximab is a monoclonal antibody used to treat advanced squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck (SCCHN) and metastatic colorectal cancer (mCRC).
Cetuximab competes to bind to the epidermal growth factor receptor (EGRF) and then subsequently inhibits tumor growth and metastasis.
Cetuximab is used in conjunction with radiation in the treatment of SCCHN.
It is also used as the sole therapy for SCCHN in instances of recurrent or metastatic disease where platinum-based therapy was not effective.
In patients with mCRC cetuximab is used in combination with irinotecan or by itself in patients who are unable to tolerate irinotecan.
Some patients develop treatment-related hypersensitivity to cetuximab and detection of anti-cetuximab IgE may help physicians identify patients at risk of a severe infusion reaction.
Chervil, sometimes called French parsley or garden chervil, is a delicate annual herb related to parsley.
Protionamide (or prothionamide) is a drug used in the treatment of tuberculosis.
It has also been tested for use in the treatment of leprosy.
A polypeptide substance comprising about one third of the total protein in mammalian organisms.
It is the main constituent of SKIN; CONNECTIVE TISSUE; and the organic substance of bones (BONE AND BONES) and teeth (TOOTH).
HCV FibroSURE is a noninvasive blood test that combines the quantitative results of 6 biochemical markers with the age and gender of the patient in a patented artificial intelligence algorithm to generate a measure of fibrosis and necroinflammatory activity in the live
Haemolytic disease of the newborn, also known as Haemolytic disease of the fetus and newborn, HDN, HDFN, or Erythroblastosis fetalis, is an alloimmune condition that develops in a fetus, when the IgG antibodies that have been produced by the mother and have passed through the placenta include ones which attack the red blood cells in the fetal circulation.
The red cells are broken down and the fetus can develop reticulocytosis and anaemia.
This fetal disease ranges from mild to very severe, and fetal death from heart failure (hydrops fetalis) can occur.
When the disease is moderate or severe, many erythroblasts are present in the foetal blood and so these forms of the disease can be called erythroblastosis fetalis (or erythroblastosis foetalis).
Increased levels of lipoprotein (a) are observed in patients with coronary artery disease, stroke, cerebrovascular and peripheral vascular disease and rarely in venous thrombosis.
Substantial increases are observed in nephrotic syndrome and end-state renal disease.
DecreasedlLipoprotein (a) levels may be seen in several rare disorders such as lecithin:cholesterol acyltranferase deficiency, lipoprotein lipase deficiency, and liver disease).
Levels in African Americans may be 2 to 3 times higher than in Caucasians and Asians whereas Native Americans and Mexican Americans have lower levels than in Caucasians and Asians.
Information from Quest Diagnostics.
Lipoprotein (a) is an LDL cholesterol particle that is attached to a special protein called apo(a).
In large part, a person's level of Lp(a) is genetically inherited.
Elevated levels of Lp(a), higher than 20 mg/dL to 30 mg/dL in the blood are linked to a greated likelihood of atherosclerosis and heart attacks in both men and women.
(The risk is even more significant if the Lp(a) cholesterol elevation is accompanied by high LDL/HDL ratios.)
It accounts for only 15% of cholesterol so elevations can be missed in patients with normal cholesterols.
Has 95% homology with plasminogen and possible interesting biologic relation to other phenomenon.
Distance from Labrale Inferius to Soft tissue Menton
The surname of the patient's father.
rPol d 5 is a marker for primary sensitization to Vespidae venom, and particularly to Polistes.
The MAP2K1 gene (mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase 1) is located on chromosome 15q22.1-q22.33.
The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the dual specificity protein kinase family, which acts as a mitogen-activated protein (MAP) kinase kinase.
MAP kinases, also known as extracellular signal-regulated kinases (ERKs), act as an integration point for multiple biochemical signals.
This protein kinase lies upstream of MAP kinases and stimulates the enzymatic activity of MAP kinases upon wide variety of extra- and intracellular signals.
As an essential component of MAP kinase signal transduction pathway, this kinase is involved in many cellular processes such as proliferation, differentiation, transcription regulation and development.
The sex that was assigned and recorded on the birth certificate at the time of an individual's birth.
11-nor-9-carboxy-delta-9-THC is the major metabolite (carboxy THC) in urine but is not related to source, time of exposure, amount, or impairment.
Rapid storage of THC metabolites in body fat occurs after use.
These substances are then released from storage sites slowly over time.
A marijuana cigarette is made from the dried leaves of the plant, Cannabis sativa.
The immediate effects of smoking marijuana include a faster heartbeat and pulse rate, bloodshot eyes, and a dry mouth and throat.
The drug can impair or reduce short-term memory, alter sense of time, and reduce the ability to do things which require concentration, swift reactions and coordination, such as driving and operating machinery.
Information from LOINC partner 1.com.
Ammonia (NH3) is produced in the body as a byproduct of the metabolism of amino acids and other compounds, is processed in the liver to form urea which is ultimately eliminated in the urine.
Elevated blood concentrations of ammonia are toxic and can lead to brain damage, coma and death.
Testing of ammonia levels is most commonly performed to monitor various diseases and less so for occupational exposure or poisoning.
Conditions associated with elevated ammonia include severe liver disease, Reye syndrome, kidney failure, and certain rare genetic diseases.
Ammonia levels may also be measured to evaluate the effectiveness of treatment of hepatic encephalopathy.
The dinoflagellates are a large group of flagellate protists.
Most are marine plankton, but they are common in fresh water habitats as well.
Their populations are distributed depending on temperature, salinity, or depth.
About half of all dinoflagellates are photosynthetic, and these make up the largest group of eukaryotic algae aside from the diatoms.
Being primary producers makes them an important part of the aquatic food chain.
Some species, called zooxanthellae, are endosymbionts of marine animals and protozoa, and play an important part in the biology of coral reefs.
Other dinoflagellates are colorless predators on other protozoa, and a few forms are parasitic (see for example Oodinium, Pfiesteria).
An algal bloom of dinoflagellates can result in a visible coloration of the water colloquially known as red tide.
Research has shown that individuals who have direct contact to pigs are highly likely to develop antibodies to porcine origin antigens, such as avian-like H1N1, human-like H3N2, and the pandemic H1N1 strain of 2009.
In addition to the likelihood of developing antibodies, they are at a higher risk of infection.
Endotoxins (not to be confused with enterotoxin) are toxins associated with certain bacteria.
An "endotoxin" is a toxin that is a structural molecule of the bacteria that is recognized by the immune system.
It differs from exotoxins in that it is not produced by the bacteria to have an effect or to be toxic to its host.
The presence of endotoxins in the blood is called endotoxemia.
It can lead to septic shock, if the immune response is severely pronounced.
Moreover, endotoxemia of intestinal origin is considered to be an important factor in the development of alcoholic hepatitis, which is likely to develop on the basis of the small bowel bacterial overgrowth syndrome and an increased intestinal permeability.
Methcathinone is an illicit drug also known as ephedrone, which is a methyl derivative of cathinone, a stimulant found in the khat plant, Catha edulis.
It is a substance of abuse and can be easily manufactured via the oxidation of pseudoephedrin.
Methcathinone abuse is a significant cause of parkinsonism among young patients in Eastern European countries.
The final mixture contains a high concentration of manganese if potassium permanganate is used as the oxidant agent.
The use of manganese-contaminated methcathinone may cause permanent neurological damage and severe disability.
Drug users develop a distinctive extrapyramidal syndrome that resembles classic manganese intoxication.
Methcathinone could have additive neurotoxic effect to the progression of parkinsonism.
Lamotrigine is an anticonvulsant used with other medication to treat epileptic seizures and to facilitate the recovery from episodes of depression, mania, and other abnormal moods in patients with bipolar I disorder.
Methotrexate (MTX) is a drug that is used to treat certain types of cancer as well as auto-immune diseases, including rheumatoid arthritis (RA), systemic lupus erythematosus and psoriasis.
After uptake of MTX into cells, MTX is activated by the addition of glutamate residues and forms methotrexate polyglutamates (MTX-PGs), which are named based on the number of added glutamate residues (e.g. methotrexate triglutamate, MTX-PG3).
The half-life of MTX in plasma is only several hours where as MTX PGs can persist in cells for weeks or months.
While high-dose MTX in the treatment of malignancy is due to the direct effect on tetrahydrofolate reductase and DNA synthesis, the long-term immune modulation of low-dose MTX therapy appears to be related to multiple metabolic effects of the MTX PGs.
Red blood cell MTX PG levels may be a marker for therapeutic response in patients treated with low-dose MTX, and low red blood cell MTX PG has been associated with poor clinical status in patients with RA.
Phoma is a genus of common coelomycetous soil fungi.
It contains many plant pathogenic species.
About 140 Phoma taxa have been defined and recognized which may be divided into two large groups: (i) plurivorous fungi, generally saprobic or weakly parasitic, mainly from temperate regions in Eurasia, but occasionally also found in other parts of the world (including areas with cool or warm climates); and (ii) specific pathogens of cultivated plants.
Spores are colorless and unicellular.
The pycnidia are black and depressed in the tissues of the host.
Phoma is arbitrarily limited to those species in which the spores are less than 15 µm as the larger spored forms have been placed in the genus Macrophoma.
The most important species include Phoma beta which is the cause of the heart rot and blight of beets, Phoma batata that produces a dry rot of sweet potato, and Phoma solani.
3-Hydroxydecanoylcarnitine belongs to the family of acyl carnitines, which are compounds containing a O-acylated carnitine.
Their general structure is C(C)(C)CC(O(R1))CC()=O where R1 is a fatty acid chain.
Acyl carnitines are essential compounds for the metabolism of fatty acids.
They are present in animals, plants and some microorganisms.
In animal tissues, carnitine concentrations are relatively high, typically between 0.2 and 6mmol/kg, with most in the heart and skeletal muscle.
The CACNA1S gene (calcium channel, voltage-dependent, L type, alpha 1S subunit) is located on chromosome 1q32.
This gene encodes one of the five subunits of the slowly inactivating L-type voltage-dependent calcium channel in skeletal muscle cells.
Mutations in this gene have been associated with hypokalemic periodic paralysis, thyrotoxic periodic paralysis and malignant hyperthermia susceptibility.
Blomia tropicalis, a Storage mite, was earlier found predominantly in agricultural environments but is now being recognised as an important contributor to the allergen content in house dust in indoor urban dwellings.
B. tropicalis is a notable mite species in many parts of the world, and the most common and most important mite species in tropical countries Several investigations have demonstrated that allergens from B. tropicalis may play an important role in sensitisation and allergic symptoms.
Sensitisation to B. tropicalis has been associated with acute asthma that requires emergency room treatment both among children and adults
Extended spectrum beta-lactamase (ESBL) enzymes are resistance enzymes produced by pathogenic organisms such as E. coli and Klebsiella.
The presence of ESBLs can be detected by comparing the inhibitory concentration (IC) of a specific antimicrobial, such as cefepime (a 4th generation cephalosporin), cefotaxime, or ceftazidime (both 3rd generation cephalosporins), with the IC of that antimicrobial plus clavulanate, an ESBL inhibitor.
A nucleoside consisting of the base guanine and the sugar deoxyribose.
It is like guanosine, but with one oxygen atom removed.
It is a nucleoside component of DNA.
Deoxyguanosine can be converted to 8-hydroxy-deoxyguanosine (8-OHdG) due to hydroxyl radical attack at the C8 of guanine.
8-OHdG is a sensitive marker of the DNA damage This damage, if left unrepaired, has been proposed to contribute to mutagenicity and cancer promotion.
Interferon beta-1a is a drug (Avonex, Rebif) in the interferon family used to treat multiple sclerosis.
It is produced by mammalian cells while Interferon beta-1b is produced in modified E. coli.
Interferons have been shown to have about a 18-38% reduction in the rate of MS relapses, and to slow the progression of disability in MS patients.
The JMH blood group was first identified by autoantibodies usually found in elderly men whose red cells exhibited a positive direct antiglobulin test.
When found in women they too were elderly and were often cat owners; hence the earlier nicknames of this collection of specificities was "The Boys" and "Cat".
The name was eventually assigned based upon the initials of one of the most thoroughly investigated propositi.
Only one family to date has been shown to have an inherited JMH negative phenotype while the majority of the JMH negatives are due to an acquired suppression of the antigen.
As with many of the early reports, anti-JMH was believed to be a single specificity.
However, the Meged serum (and later others) showed that other polymorphic determinants were involved in the JMH phenotype.
Cow's milk is a major cause of adverse reactions in infants and hidden exposure is common.
Casein (cheese) is a heat-stable allergen while whey proteins are altered by boiling.
Succinic acid is a dicarboxylic acid that increases due to a riboflavin or coenzyme Q-10 deficiency or bacterial conversion of glutamine to succicinic acid in the gastrointestinal tract.
Elevated levels may be due to succinic semialdehyde dehydrogenase deficiency, malonic acidura, or fumarase deficiency.
The radial position is the position within the breast from which the specimen was excised.
A species of ORBIVIRUS that causes disease in horses, mules, and donkeys.
Via its principal vector CULICOIDES, it can also infect dogs, elephants, camels, cattle, sheep, goats, and, in special circumstances, humans.
5-Aminoimidazole-4-carboxamide is an imidazole derivative which is a metabolite of the antineoplastic agents BIC and DIC.
By itself, or as the ribonucleotide, it is used as a condensation agent in the preparation of nucleosides and nucleotides.
Compounded with orotic acid, it is used to treat liver diseases.
A ureahydrolase that catalyzes the hydrolysis of arginine or canavanine to yield L-ORNITHINE and urea.
Deficiency of this enzyme causes HYPERARGININEMIA. .
An E. coli strain carrying a cloned cDNA encoding Penaeus aztecus allergen Pen a 1.
CMS-2744 is a form completed annually by providers or facilities to collect patient or aggregate data necessary for the operation of the ESRD program.
1) Patients receiving care at the beginning of the reporting period, 2) Additions during the reporting period, 3) Patient losses during the reporting period, 4) Number of patients present at the end of the reporting period, and 5)
Patients Medicare enrollment status.
Acetaminophen is a drug used to treat minor pain and fever.
When it is combined with other active components, acetaminophen can be used to treat allergy, cough, colds, flu, and insomnia.
Acetaminophen in conjunction with other analgesics is also used to treat moderate to severe pain.
If taken beyond the recommended dosage, acetaminophen can cause significant liver damage.
Combination prescription drugs with more than 325 mg of acetaminophen were prohibited by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) to be marketed as of March, 2014.
KEL is highly polymorphic.
It has two major codominant alleles, k and K, which result from a SNP (698C→T), and the corresponding k and K antigens differ by a single amino acid change (T193M).
Mostly IgG antibodies, so IgM is uncommon.
Anti-K does not bind complement.
If hemolysis does occur, it is extravascular in nature.
Anti-K can cause a severe hemolytic transfusion reaction and severe fetal anemia.
Beck L, Blood groups and red cell antigens. .
Bcl-2 (B-cell lymphoma 2) is the founding member of the Bcl-2 family of apoptosis regulator proteins encoded by the BCL2 gene.
Bcl-2 derives its name from B-cell lymphoma 2, as it is the second member of a range of proteins initially described in chromosomal translocations involving chromosomes 14 and 18 in follicular lymphomas.
Bcl-2 orthologs have been identified in numerous mammals for which complete genome data are available.
The two isoforms of Bcl-2, Isoform 1, also known as 1G5M, and Isoform 2, also known as 1G5O/1GJH, exhibit similar fold.
However, results in the ability of these isoforms to bind to the BAD and BAK proteins, as well as in the structural topology and electrostatic potential of the binding groove, suggest differences in antiapoptotic activity for the two isoforms.
The Bcl-2 gene has been implicated in a number of cancers, including melanoma, breast, prostate, chronic lymphocytic leukemia, and lung carcinomas, as well as schizophrenia and autoimmunity.
It is also thought to be involved in resistance to conventional cancer treatment.
This suggests that decreased apoptosis may play a role in the development of cancer.
Antibodies to Bcl-2 can be used with immunohistochemistry to identify cells containing the antigen.
In healthy tissue, these antibodies will react with B-cells in the mantle zone, as well as some T-cells.
However, there is a considerable increase in positive cells in follicular lymphoma, as well as many other forms of cancer.
In some cases, the presence or absence of Bcl-2 staining in biopsies may be significant for the patient's prognosis or likelihood of relapse.
Measurement of corneal curvature/power can be performed with a variety of instruments, most commonly a keratometer, IOLMaster (a non-contact optical device manufactured by ZEISS), or corneal topography device.
Corneal curvature is usually used for intra-ocular lens (IOL) calculations and corneal refractive surgery.
It is also helpful for contact lens fitting and detecting irregular astigmatism.
Palatinase (also called sucrase-isomaltase) is a brush-border disaccharidase enzyme that hydrolyzes palatinose.
Congenital sucrase-isomaltase deficiency (CSID) is a genetic condition affecting the digestion of some sugars.
People with this condition cannot break down the sugars sucrose and maltose.
CSID is also known as genetic sucrase deficiency, SI Deficiency, Disaccharide Intolerance I, and Congenital Sucrose Intolerance.
CSID usually becomes apparent after the infant begins to eat fruits, juices, and grains.
Symptoms include stomach cramps, bloating, excess gas production, and diarrhea.
These digestive problems can lead to failure to thrive and malnutrition.
CSID is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern and is caused by mutations in the SI gene.
Treatment focuses on dietary management through a low-sucrose or sucrose-free diet.
In addition, a low-starch or starch-free diet is advised in some cases, especially in the first few years of life.
High density lipoprotein (HDL) is the smallest and densest of the five main lipoproteins which, in addition to HDL, include chylomicrons, very low density lipoprotein, intermediate density lipoprotein and low density lipoprotein.
HDL has long been hailed as the 'good' cholesterol because it is able to remove cholesterol from arterial walls and deposit it in the liver.
However, it has been found that measuring the level of HDL in the circulation does not provide an accurate risk assessment of premature cardiovascular disease (CVD).
There are five subclasses of HDL including pre beta-1, small alpha-4, medium alpha-3, large alpha-2 and very large alpha-1.
High concentrations of the largest alpha-1 HDL provides the highest negative predictor for CVD.Measuring these subclasses gives a more precise risk evaluation for CVD than just the level of HDL.
The optimal combination of HDL subclasses for low CVD risk is a high alph-1 and low alpha-4 and pre-beta.
Increased levels of alpha-3 are associated with an increased risk of CVD.
Hev b 6.02, hevein, is a small protein, which has been identified as the most common allergen for healthcare workers allergic to Latex.
About 75% of these workers allergic to Latex had hevein-specific antibodies.
A species of Trypanosome hemoflagellates that is carried by tsetse flies and causes severe anemia in cattle.
These parasites are also found in horses, sheep, goats, and camels.
As a major allergen for patients sensitized to pollen of Salsola kali but not Chenopodium album (3), Sal k 1 can be considered an allergenic marker to discriminate among patients allergic to Chenopodiaceae pollens.
nSal k 1 can thus be used as a marker of saltwort sensitization for specific immunotherapy (SIT).
The high-affinity IgE receptor, also known as FcεRI, or Fc epsilon RI, is the high-affinity receptor for the Fc region of immunoglobulin E (IgE), an antibody isotype involved in the allergy disorder and parasites immunity.
FcεRI is a tetrameric receptor complex consisting of one alpha (FcεRIα - antibody binding site), one beta (FcεRIβ - which amplifies the downstream signal), and two disulfide bridge connected gamma chains (FcεRIγ - the site where the downstream signal initiates).
It is constitutively expressed on mast cells and basophils and is inducible in eosinophils.
FcεRI is found on epidermal Langerhans cells, eosinophils, mast cells, and basophils.
As a result of its cellular distribution, this receptor plays a major role in controlling allergic responses.
FcεRI is also expressed on antigen-presenting cells, and controls the production of important immune mediators (cytokines, interleukins, leukotrienes, and prostaglandins) that promote inflammation.
The most famous mediator is histamine, which results in the five symptoms of inflammation: heat, swelling, pain, redness and itchiness.
Serotonin (5-hydroxytryptamine, or 5-HT) is a monoamine neurotransmitter synthesized in serotonergic neurons in the central nervous system (CNS) and enterochromaffin cells in the gastrointestinal tract.
In the central nervous system, serotonin is believed to play an important role in the regulation of mood, sleep, emesis (vomiting), sexuality and appetite.
Low levels of Serotonin have been associated with several disorders, notably depression, migraine, bipolar disorder and anxiety.
Isolated and named in 1948 by Maurice M. Rapport, the name serotonin is something of a misnomer and reflects the circumstances of the compound's discovery.
It was initially identified as a vasoconstrictor substance in blood serum hence serotonin, a serum agent affecting vascular tone.
This agent was later chemically identified as 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT) by Rapport, and, as the broad range of physiological roles were elucidated, 5-HT became the preferred name in the pharmacological field.
Loa loa is the filarial nematode (roundworm) species that causes Loa loa filariasis.
It is commonly known as the "eye worm".
Its geographic distribution includes Africa and Sudan.
L. loa is one of four parasitic filarial nematodes that cause subcutaneous filariasis in humans.
The three other filarial nematodes are Mansonella streptocerca, Onchocerca volvulus (causes river blindness), and Dracunculus medinensis (guinea worm).
Maturing larvae and adults of the "eye worm" occupy the subcutaneous layer of the skin - the fat layer - of humans, causing disease.
The young larvae develop in horseflies of the genus Chrysops (deer flies, yellow flies), including the species C. dimidiata and C. silacea, which infect humans by biting them.
Caution: this is not the same as alpha lipoprotein.
Recombinant Malus domestica (rMal d) 3 is a lipid transfer protein of the apple.
Lipid transfer proteins are also present in many other species of plants, including peaches, nuts and grapes, are often linked to severe allergic reactions, and have cross-reactivity across species.
The soluble urokinase plasminogen activator receptor (suPAR) is a product of the urokinase plasminogen activator/urokinase plasminogen activator receptor system, which is an important regulator of inflammation, immunity, and coagulopathy.
The level of suPAR has been found to be significantly elevated in patients with COVID-19, and higher levels have been associated with increased risk of COVID-19 complications.
Aromatic diamine used in the plastics industry as curing agent for epoxy resins and urethane rubbers.
It causes bladder, liver, lung, and other neoplasms.
Melperone (brand names: Bunil, Buronil, and Eunerpan) is a butyrophenone antipsychotic structurally related to haloperidol.
Melperone is used to treat schizophrenia and has been shown to improve cognitive functioning.
Proteinase 3 (PR3) is an enzyme contained in white blood cell neutrophils.
It contributes to the breakdown of microbial proteins into polypeptides or amino acids (proteolysis).
Antibodies to Proteinase 3 are a subgroup of anti-neutrophil cytoplasmic antibodies that can cause the disease granulomatosis with polyangitis that affects primarily the kidneys and the lungs.
Hallucinogenic alkaloid isolated from the flowering heads (peyote) of Lophophora (formerly Anhalonium) williamsii, a Mexican cactus used in Indian religious rites and as an experimental psychotomimetic.
Among its cellular effects are agonist actions at some types of serotonin receptors.
It has no accepted therapeutic uses although it is legal for religious use by members of the Native American Church.
Cell cycle progression is regulated by cyclins and their cognate cyclin-dependent kinases (Cdks).
P27 (Kip1) is a member of the Cip/Kip family of cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitors.
P27 binds to and inhibits cyclinE-Cdk2, cyclinA-CDK2 and cyclinD1-CDK4 complex and enforce the G1 restriction point.
It is a candidate tumor suppressor gene, and has been proposed to function as a possible mediator of TGF beta induced G1 arrest.
P27 is up regulated in quiescent cells and in cells treated with cAMP and antimitogenic stimuli.
P27 is regulated by phosphorylation on serine 10 (S10) and threonine 187 (T187).
Phosphorylation by CDK2 on T187 results in ubiquitylation and degradation of p27; while phosphorylation by hKIS on S10 signals the nuclear export to the cytoplasm.
The HADHB gene (hydroxyacyl-CoA dehydrogenase/3-ketoacyl-CoA thiolase/enoyl-CoA hydratase (trifunctional protein), beta subunit) is located on chromosome 2p23.
This gene encodes the beta subunit of the mitochondrial trifunctional protein, which catalyzes the last three steps of mitochondrial beta-oxidation of long chain fatty acids.
The mitochondrial membrane-bound heterocomplex is composed of four alpha and four beta subunits, with the beta subunit catalyzing the 3-ketoacyl-CoA thiolase activity.
The encoded protein can also bind RNA and decreases the stability of some mRNAs.
The genes of the alpha and beta subunits of the mitochondrial trifunctional protein are located adjacent to each other in the human genome in a head-to-head orientation.
Mutations in this gene result in trifunctional protein deficiency.
Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been described.
Mycobacterium tuberculosis was discovered by Robert Koch in 1882 to be the infectious organism of tuberculosis (TB).
Tuberculosis is a worldwide public health problem, especially in third world countries.
The infection is classified as latent when the patient is asymptomatic and the infection is in a non-transmissible state.
The active form of TB is transmissible and can be diagnosed by culturing the organism or by using molecular testing.
Patients who are symptomatic have symptoms including fever, fatigue, loss of appetite, weight loss, persistent cough, and hemoptysis.
Treatment of TB has been complicated by the emergence of drug-resistant strains which are present all over the world.
Resistance to all of the drugs used to treat TB has occurred including the first line of treatment drugs isoniazid, rifampicin, pyrazinamide, and ethambutol.
Some strains of TB have become resistant to more than one of the drugs used to treat TB, and are referred to as either multidrug-resistant TB (MDR-TB) or extensively drug-resistant TB (XDR-TB).
MDR-TB are defined to be resistant to at least isoniazid and rifampicin.
XDR-TB have worse disease symptoms and are resistant to isoniazid, rifampicin, any one of the fluoroquinolones, and any one of the three injectable second-line drugs amikacin, kanamycin, and capreomycin.
The biggest risk factor for acquiring TB is to be infected by the human immunodeficiency virus (HIV).
Twenty-five percent of all TB infections occur in patients also infected with HIV, and most of those occur in Africa.
Social and behavioral determinants such as excessive alcohol use, smoking, and type 2 diabetes mellitus can increase the risk of contracting TB by two to three times.
Coliform bacteria are a commonly-used indicator of sanitary quality of foods and water.
Coliform bacteria are defined as rod-shaped gram-negative organisms which ferment lactose with the production of gas when incubated at 35 °C.
Coliforms are abundant in the feces of warm-blooded animals, but can also be found in the aquatic environment, in soil and on vegetation.
In most instances, coliforms themselves are not the cause of sickness, but they are easy to culture and their presence is used to indicate that other pathogenic organisms of fecal origin may be present.
Carnosine (beta -alanyl-L-histidine) is a dipeptide of the amino acids beta -alanine and histidine.
It is highly concentrated in muscle and brain tissues.
Studies have shown that it can be used as an effective dietary supplement for people with autism, potentially improving such areas as auditory processing, speech language skills, motor skills, and socialization.
However, supplemental carnosine may increase corticosterone levels, which can explain the hyperactivity sometimes seen in high doses.
Researchers in Australia, Britain, and Russia have also shown that carnosine has a number of antioxidant properties that may be beneficial.
Carnosine has been proven to scavenge ROS (radical oxygen species) as well as alpha-beta unsaturated aldehydes formed from peroxidation of cell membrane fatty acids during oxidative stress.
It can oppose glycation and it can chelate divalent metal ions.
Human coronavirus 229E (HCoV229E) is a single-stranded, positive-sense, RNA virus species in the Alphacoronavirus genus of the subfamily Coronavirinae, in the family Coronaviridae, of the order Nidovirales.
HCoV229E is associated with a range of respiratory symptoms, ranging from the common cold to high-morbidity outcomes such as pneumonia and bronchiolitis.
It is also among the Coronaviruses most frequently co-detected with other respiratory viruses.
Mycobacterium bovis is a slow-growing aerobic bacterium.
Bovine tuberculosis is a disease caused by Mycobacterium bovis infection in cattle and occurs in every country of the world.
It is of major importance to the dairy cattle industry.
M. bovis is usually transmitted to humans by consuming raw, infected cows milk, although it can also spread via aerosol droplets.
Pasteurisation kills M. bovis bacteria in infected milk.
The BRCA1 gene (breast cancer 1, early onset) is located on chromosome 17q21.
This gene encodes a nuclear phosphoprotein that plays a role in maintaining genomic stability, and it also acts as a tumor suppressor.
The encoded protein combines with other tumor suppressors, DNA damage sensors, and signal transducers to form a large multi-subunit protein complex known as the BRCA1-associated genome surveillance complex (BASC).
This gene product associates with RNA polymerase II, and through the C-terminal domain, also interacts with histone deacetylase complexes.
This protein thus plays a role in transcription, DNA repair of double-stranded breaks, and recombination.
Mutations in this gene are responsible for approximately 40% of inherited breast cancers and more than 80% of inherited breast and ovarian cancers.
Alternative splicing plays a role in modulating the subcellular localization and physiological function of this gene.
Many alternatively spliced transcript variants, some of which are disease-associated mutations, have been described for this gene, but the full-length natures of only some of these variants has been described.
A related pseudogene, which is also located on chromosome 17, has been identified.
Amoeba (sometimes amœba or ameba, plural amoebae) is a genus of protozoan.
The RPGR gene (retinitis pigmentosa GTPase regulator) is located on chromosome Xp21.1.
This gene encodes a protein with a series of six RCC1-like domains (RLDs), characteristic of the highly conserved guanine nucleotide exchange factors.
The encoded protein is found in the Golgi body and interacts with RPGRIP1.
This protein localizes to the outer segment of rod photoreceptors and is essential for their viability.
Mutations in this gene have been associated with X-linked retinitis pigmentosa (XLRP).
Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants that encode different isoforms of this gene have been reported, but the full-length natures of only some have been determined.
Veterinary Medicine: Porcine cytomegalovirus (PCMV) is a subgroup of the herpesviruses that causes inclusion body rhinitis (IBR).
IBR causes a constellation of symptom mainly in nursing or newly weaned piglets that include rhinitis, conjunctivitis, sneezing, nasal discharge, respiratory distress, shivering, and mouth breathing.
Pregnant sows that become infected with PCMV are at risk of delivering a dead, mummified, stillborn, or weak piglet.
PCMV can be found all over the world in pigs of all ages.
The virus is transmitted when virus in nasal and ocular secretions, urine, and infected aerosols created by sneezing and coughing are inhaled or ingested.
Infection is usually asymptomatic when a herd immunity against PCMV is present or when the pigs are six weeks or older in age.
PCMV invades several types of epithelial cells and forms intranuclear inclusion bodies that are visible microscopically when stained.
Diagnosis of PCMV infection is most often made by viewing the intranuclear bodies in tissue samples of symptomatic pigs.
The diagnosis can be confirmed by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) or indirect immunofluorescent assay (IF).
No known effective treatment or medication is available.
The ability of PCMV to infect humans has not been established.
The Interleukins belong to the family termed cytokines.
They are peptides used by immune and inflammatory cells to communicate and control cell operations.
The cytokines have some similar actions to the Growth Factors but Growth Factors regulate proliferation of non-immune cells.
Interleukin 1a is a 17,500 molecular weight peptide derived primarily from macrophages, fibroblasts, endothelial cells, and B cells.
The major target cells are T and B cells, Fibroblasts, and Hepatocytes.
Interleukin 1a shares a receptor with Interleukin 1b although they are significantly different structurally.
Interleukin 1a promotes antigen specific immune responses, inflammation, Prostaglandin secretion, Colony Stimulating Factors, proteoglycanase, collagenase, and gelatinase activity, and release of Interleukin 2 from T cells.
Levels are stimulated by liposaccharide, endotoxins, inflammatory agents, lectin, Tumor Necrosis Factor, and Interferons.
Levels are suppressed by Corticosteroids, Prostaglandin E2, and suppressant lymphocytes
The CDKN1B gene (cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor 1B (p27, Kip1)) is located on chromosome 12p13.1-p12.
This gene encodes a cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor, which shares a limited similarity with CDK inhibitor CDKN1A/p21.
The encoded protein binds to and prevents the activation of cyclin E-CDK2 or cyclin D-CDK4 complexes, and thus controls the cell cycle progression at G1.
The degradation of this protein, which is triggered by its CDK dependent phosphorylation and subsequent ubiquitination by SCF complexes, is required for the cellular transition from quiescence to the proliferative state.
Mutations in this gene are associated with multiple endocrine neoplasia type IV (MEN4).
Benzphetamine (Didrex) is an anorectic drug.
Benzphetamine is used as a short term adjunct in management of exogenous obesity.
It is closely related to amphetamine.
Cefdinir (marketed by Abbott Laboratories under the brand name Omnicef) is a semi-synthetic, broad-spectrum antibiotic in the third generation of the cephalosporin class, proven effective for common bacterial infections of the ear, sinus, throat, and skin.
It was approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) in December 1997.
CD8 (cluster of differentiation 8) is a transmembrane glycoprotein that serves as a co-receptor for the T cell receptor (TCR).
Like the TCR, CD8 binds to a major histocompatibility complex (MHC) molecule, but is specific for the class I MHC protein.
It is predominantly expressed on the surface of cytotoxic T cells, but can also be found on natural killer cells.
To function, CD8 forms a dimer, consisting of a pair of CD8 chains.
The most common form of CD8 is composed of a CD8-α and CD8-β chain, both members of the immunoglobulin superfamily with an immunoglobulin variable (IgV)-like extracellular domain connected to the membrane by a thin stalk, and an intracellular tail.
Less-common homodimers of the CD8-α chain are also expressed on some cells.
The extracellular IgV-like domain of CD8-α interacts with to the α3 portion of the Class I MHC molecule.
This affinity keeps the T cell receptor of the cytotoxic T cell and the target cell bound closely together during antigen-specific activation.
Cytotoxic T cells with CD8 surface protein are called CD8+ T cells.
Hemoglobin C (abbreviated as Hb C or HbC) is an abnormal hemoglobin with substitution of a glutamic acid residue for a lysine residue at the 6th position of the β-globin chain.
This mutated form reduces the normal plasticity of host erythrocytes causing a hemoglobinopathy.
In those who are heterozygous for the mutation, about 28-44% of total hemoglobin (Hb) is HbC, and no anemia develops.
In homozygotes, nearly all Hb is in the HbC form, resulting in mild hemolytic anemia.
Target cells, microspherocytes and HbC crystals are found in a blood smear from a homozygous patient.
CD106, is a vascular cell adhesion molecule 1, also known as VCAM1, is a human gene.
This gene is a member of the Ig superfamily and encodes a cell surface sialoglycoprotein expressed by cytokine-activated endothelium.
This type I membrane protein mediates leukocyte-endothelial cell adhesion and signal transduction, and may play a role in the development of artherosclerosis and rheumatoid arthritis.
Two alternatively spliced transcripts encoding different isoforms have been described for this gene.
Complex chromosome structural alterations can be detected by using cytogenetic methods such as chromosome painting analysis.
Spectral karyotyping (SKY) and multiplex (M)-FISH are two types of chromosome painting methods.
Both involve "painting" each chromosome a different color using 24 unique fluorochromes and then using the colors to identify subtle structural variations that previously could not be detected.
According to one study, M-FISH has been able to identify chromosome abnormalities in up to 7% of patients with previously unexplained mental retardation.
Complex structural aberration analysis can be the next step in evaluation when an abnormality is detected but cannot be further identified using more common methods, and the advanced methodologies are being utilized in different domains, including prenatal diagnosis as well as solid and hematologic malignancies.
Fencamfamine (Glucoenergan, Reactivan) is a stimulant which was developed in the 1960s as an appetite suppressant, but was later withdrawn for this application due to problems with dependence and abuse.
It is around half the potency of dextroamphetamine, and is prescribed at a dose of 10-60mg, although abusers of the drug tend to rapidly develop tolerance and escalate their dose.
Reactivan is still used, though rarely, for treating depressive day-time fatigue, lack of concentration and lethargy, particularly in individuals who have chronic medical conditions, as its favourable safety profile makes it the most suitable drug in some cases.
Fencamfamine acts as an indirect dopamine agonist.
It releases dopamine by a similar mechanism to amphetamines, but is ten times less potent than dexamphetamine at producing this effect.
The main mechanism of action is instead inhibition of dopamine reuptake, more similar to that of methylphenidate.
Also unlike amphetamines, fencamfamine does not inhibit the action of monoamine oxidase enzymes and so is somewhat safer.
Some experiments also suggest a role for opioid receptors in the activity of fencamfamine, as low doses can cause paradoxical sedation, and some effects of the drug are blocked by naloxone.
Glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) is an intermediate filament (IF) protein highly expressed in the central nervous system (CNS), almost exclusively in astrocytes, as well as in the peripheral nervous system (PNS).
GFAP is used as a biomarker for traumatic brain injuries (TBIs) and stroke.
In the presence of astrogliosis, GFAP gene activation and protein production are found to be increased.
Additionally, studies have found that an increased amount of GFAP is found in serum following TBIs and stroke.
The hemolysis, icterus, and lipemia (HIL) indices measure the amount of interference in a specimen due to hemolysis, bilirubin, and lipids, respectively.
All three are measured by assessing a sample's light absorbance at different wavelengths.
Different IVD manufacturers use different wavelengths to measure each one.
There is some overlap between the wavelengths at which each one is detected, and each manufacturer accounts for this when determining which wavelengths to utilize for each.
The Clinical and Laboratory Standards Institute recommends using cutoff values for acceptable HIL levels that are specific to the analyte being measured, since HIL levels may impact the measurement of different analytes to different degrees.
Alpha hydroxytriazolam is one of two major metabolites of Triazolam.
Amaranthus palmeri is a species of edible flowering plant in the amaranth genus.
It has several common names, including Palmer's amaranth, Palmer amaranth, Palmer's pigweed, and carelessweed.
It is native to most of the southern half of North America.
Populations in the eastern United States are probably naturalized.
It has also been introduced to Europe, Australia, and other areas.
The plant is fast-growing and highly competitive.
One of the phthalimide fungicides.
The distance from the nerve stimulation site to the impulse recording site for nerve conduction studies.
The further the distance, the longer the expected latency (the time from nerve stimulation to start of the action potential).
Levetiracetam is an anticonvulsant and can be taken as a fluid or a tablet.
Side effects from taking Levetiracetam can include aggression or agitation, drowsiness, reduced consciousness, and even coma.
The CBS gene (cystathionine-beta-synthase) is located on chromosome 21q22.3.
The protein encoded by this gene acts as a homotetramer to catalyze the conversion of homocysteine to cystathionine, the first step in the transsulfuration pathway.
The encoded protein is allosterically activated by adenosyl-methionine and uses pyridoxal phosphate as a cofactor.
Defects in this gene can cause cystathionine beta-synthase deficiency (CBSD), which can lead to homocystinuria.
Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants have been found for this gene.
The SLC12A3 gene (solute carrier family 12 member 3) is located on chromosome 16q13.
This gene encodes a renal thiazide-sensitive sodium-chloride cotransporter that is important for electrolyte homeostasis.
This cotransporter mediates sodium and chloride reabsorption in the distal convoluted tubule.
Mutations in this gene cause Gitelman syndrome, a disease similar to Bartter's syndrome, that is characterized by hypokalemic alkalosis combined with hypomagnesemia, low urinary calcium, and increased renin activity associated with normal blood pressure.
This cotransporter is the target for thiazide diuretics that are used for treating high blood pressure.
Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
Vitamin B6 is a water-soluble vitamin that is naturally present in many foods, added to others, and available as a dietary supplement.
It is the generic name for six compounds (vitamers) with vitamin B6 activity: pyridoxine, an alcohol; pyridoxal, an aldehyde; and pyridoxamine, which contains an amino group; and their respective 5'-phosphate esters.
Pyridoxal 5' phosphate (PLP) and pyridoxamine 5' phosphate (PMP) are the active coenzyme forms of vitamin B6.
Substantial proportions of the naturally occurring pyridoxine in fruits, vegetables, and grains exist in glycosylated forms that exhibit reduced bioavailability.
Vitamin B6 in coenzyme forms performs a wide variety of functions in the body, with involvement in more than 100 enzyme reactions, mostly concerned with protein metabolism.
Vitamin B6 also plays a role in cognitive development.
Vitamin B6 is involved in gluconeogenesis and glycogenolysis, immune function (for example, it promotes lymphocyte and interleukin-2 production), and hemoglobin formation.
The human body absorbs vitamin B6 in the jejunum.
Found in a wide variety of foods, the richest sources of vitamin B6 include fish, beef liver and other organ meats, potatoes and other starchy vegetables, and fruit (other than citrus).
Dehydroepiandrosterone (DHEA), is a natural steroid hormone produced by the adrenal glands, the gonads, adipose tissue and the brain.
DHEA is the precursor of androstenedione, testosterone and estrogen.
It is the most abundant hormone in humans.
The CAPN3 gene (calpain 3, (p94)) is located on chromosome 15q15.1.
Calpain, a heterodimer consisting of a large and a small subunit, is a major intracellular protease, although its function has not been well established.
This gene encodes a muscle-specific member of the calpain large subunit family that specifically binds to titin.
Mutations in this gene are associated with limb-girdle muscular dystrophies type 2A.
Alternate promoters and alternative splicing result in multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms and some variants are ubiquitously expressed.
ABCB1 (also known as MDR1) is one of many ubiquitous adenosine triphosphate (ATP)-binding cassette (ABC) genes.
ABCB1 encodes a transmembrane transporter, P-glycoprotein (P-gp), and plays a role in cell defense against environmental attacks.
Many polymorphisms have been reported in this gene, including 1236C>T (rs1128503) in exon 12, 2677G>T (rs2032582) in exon 21 and 3435C>T (rs1045642) in exon 26.
The 2677G>T variant is associated with a 2.6 fold higher risk of developing lung cancer.
Individuals homozygous for the 2677G>T variant and heterozygous for the 3435C>T variant have up to a 20 fold higher risk of developing lung cancer.
The Pecan/Hickory tree is part of the genera Carya, a tree species producing pollen, which often induces hayfever, asthma and conjunctivitis in sensitized individuals.
Pollen is produced in the Spring, which extends from April to June in the Northern hemisphere.
The pollination occurs by the wind, is very allergenic, but it is large and does not travel far.
In areas where the trees are cultivated commercially, heavy exposure to the pollen can cause allergy symptoms.
Leptospira weilii serovar Topaz was first isolated from a human in Australia in 1990, and since then, Topaz has been isolated from cattle and bandicoots.
Although the organism has not been isolated from kangaroos, there is serological evidence for kangaroo infection.
Human leptospirosis cases due to serovar Topaz have been increasing since 2003.
CD158b (also known as KIR2DL3) is a useful marker in the evaluation of kidney transplant rejection.
A potent vasodilator agent with calcium antagonistic action.
It is a useful anti-anginal agent that also lowers blood pressure.
A glycoprotein albumin from hen's egg white with strong iron-binding affinity.
2-Methylacetoacetic acid is a metabolite that has an increased excretion in patients with acetoacetyl-CoA thiolase deficiency.
Thiolases are ubiquitous and important enzymes.
Several isoenzymes are known, which can occur in the cytosol (ACAT2), the mitochondria (ACAT1), or the peroxisomes (ACAA2).
Thiolases are CoA-dependent enzymes which catalyze the formation of a carbon-carbon bond in a Claisen condensation step and its reverse reaction via a thiolytic degradation mechanism.
Mitochondrial acetoacetyl-coenzyme A (CoA) thiolase (T2) is important in the pathways for the synthesis and degradation of ketone bodies as well as for the degradation of 2-methylacetoacetyl-CoA., , ,
Troponin T is a part of the troponin complex.
It binds to tropomyosin, interlocking them to form a troponin-tropomyosin complex.
Veterinary medicine: Porcine circoviruses (PCV) are small nonenveloped, single stranded, negative sense, circular DNA viruses in the Circoviridae family.
The three species of PCV are PCV1, PCV2, and PCV3.
PCV3 is a recently described circovirus species that is circulating in many countries including the United States, China, South Korea and Poland.
PCV3 was originally believed to reside mainly in pigs with respiratory disease, skin disease, and reproductive disorders.
But evidence suggests PCV3 may also be found in apparently healthy pigs or in those with diarrhea or other clinical symptoms.
A genus of coccidian parasites of the family cryptosporidiidae, found in the intestinal epithelium of many vertebrates including humans.
A hazard is a source of potential harm to an individual's physical or mental health.
Hazards may be biological, physical, psychological, chemical, or radiological in nature.
An occupational hazard is one that is specific to the work or work environment of an individual.
Corticotropin-releasing hormone (CRH), originally named corticotropin-releasing factor (CRF), and also called corticoliberin, is a polypeptide hormone and neurotransmitter involved in the stress response.
Corticotropin-releasing hormone (CRH) is a 41-amino acid peptide derived from a 191-amino acid preprohormone.
CRH is secreted by the paraventricular nucleus (PVN) of the hypothalamus in response to stress.
Marked reduction in CRH has been observed in association with Alzheimer's disease, and autosomal recessive hypothalamic corticotropin deficiency has multiple and potentially-fatal metabolic consequences including hypoglycemia and hepatitis.
In addition to being produced in the hypothalamus, CRH is also synthesized in peripheral tissues, such as T lymphocytes, and is highly expressed in the placenta.
In the placenta, CRH is a marker that determines the length of gestation and the timing of parturition and delivery.
A rapid increase in circulating levels of CRH occurs at the onset of parturition, suggesting that, in addition to its metabolic functions, CRH may act as a trigger for parturition.
Alnus rubra (red alder) is a deciduous broadleaf tree native to western North America.
Chymopapain is a proteolytic enzyme with a molecular weight of 27 kDa.
It is extracted from a fraction of non-crystallised latex from a tropical tree, Carica papaya.
Since 1965 it has been used to treat herniated disks through chemonucleolysis.
Chemonucleolysis is a medical procedure that involves the dissolving of the gelatinous cushioning material in an intervertebral disk by the injection of an enzyme such as Chymopapain.
A typical product for chemonucleolysis is Chymodiactin.
Chymopapain is the major active component of Papain.
Because they have the same antigenic determinants, Papain and Chymopapain exhibit cross-reactivity.
Chymopapain is more soluble and has greater proteolytic activity than Papain.
Chymopapain may commonly induce symptoms of allergy, including anaphylaxis and anaphylactoid reactions, in sensitised individuals undergoing chemonucleolysis.
Although it has not been clinically investigated, there is a possibility of subsequent allergy to foods containing Chymopapain or closely related Papain.
Extrarenal epithelial cells are epithelial cells that are not of renal or kidney origin.
The body structure that a particular surgical specimen that was excised from.
The FGD1 gene (FYVE, RhoGEF and PH domain containing 1) is located on chromosome Xp11.21.
This gene encodes a protein that contains Dbl (DH) and pleckstrin (PH) homology domains and is similar to the Rho family of small GTP-binding proteins.
The encoded protein specifically binds to the Rho family GTPase Cdc42Hs and can stimulate the GDP-GTP exchange of the isoprenylated form of Cdc42Hs.
It also stimulates the mitogen activated protein kinase cascade leading to c-Jun kinase SAPK/JNK1 activation.
Defects in this gene are the cause of faciogenital dysplasia and X-linked mental retardation, syndromatic 16.
Gabapentin, brand name Horizant or Neurontin, is an anticonvulsant used to control certain types of seizures, relieve the pain of postherpetic neuralgia, and treat restless leg syndrome.
Gabapentin is used to treat peripheral and central neuropathic pain in adults.
Aldosterone-18-glucuronide (Aldo-18-G) is a metabolite of aldosterone and makes up approximatedly 5-15% of urinary aldosterone excretion.
Another metabolite, 3alpha, 5beta-tetrahydroaldosterone (TH-Aldo), reflects 15-40% of aldosterone excretion and usually provides a more accurate index of aldosterone secretion.
Determination of both metabolites in urine increases the diagnostic accuracy for primary aldosteronism.
Rho(D) Immune Globulin is a medicine given by intramuscular injection which is used to prevent the immunological condition known as Rhesus disease (or hemolytic disease of newborn).
The medicine is a solution of IgG anti-D (anti-RhD) antibodies which bind to, and lead to the destruction of, fetal Rh D positive red blood cells that have passed from the fetal circulation to the maternal circulation.
Therefore, in a Rhesus negative mother it can prevent sensitization of the maternal immune system to Rh D antigens, which can cause rhesus disease in the current or in subsequent pregnancies.
With the widespread use of Rho(D) Immune Globulin, Rh disease of the fetus and newborn has almost disappeared.
It can also be used in the treatment of idiopathic thrombocytopenic purpura in Rhesus positive patients.
Dwell time is the length of time the peritoneal dialysis solution stays in the peritoneal cavity before it is drained.
Multiple exchanges with shorter dwell times are more effective at removing solutes compared to fewer exchanges with longer dwell times.
For example, two 3-hour exchanges are more efficient than a single 6-hour exchange.
Staphylococcus aureus (S. aureus) are cocci-shaped gram-positive bacteria that assemble in grape-like clusters and cause a wide variety of infections.
Up to 50% of adults carry S. aureus on their skin or in their mucous membranes.
It is highly adaptable, resulting in drug resistant strains: methicillin-resistant S. aureus (MRSA), methicillin-susceptbile S. aureus (MSSA), vancomycin-intermediate S. aureus (VISA) and vancomycin-resistant S. aureus (VRSA).
Examples of human infections caused by S. aureus: bacteremia, gastroenteritis, infective endocarditis, meningitis, osteomyelitis, pulmonary infections, septic arthritis, skin and soft tissue infections, toxic shock syndrome, and urinary tract infections.
Diagnosis of S. aureus infection may vary by infection site, e.g., clinical signs and symptoms for skin infections, blood or tissue cultures for other infection types.
People with chronic health conditions, weakened immune systems or IV drug users are at a greater risk, as are patients in intensive care units (ICUs) and those with a history of certain types of surgeries and patients with implanted medical devices.
An anticonvulsant effective in tonic-clonic epilepsy (EPILEPSY, TONIC-CLONIC).
It may cause blood dyscrasias.
Brexpiprazole is known as 'atypical' antipsychotic drug approved by the FDA in July 2015 for treatment of schizophrenia and adjunctive therapy for major depressive disorder.
An element of the alkaline earth family of metals.
It has the atomic symbol Sr, atomic number 38, and atomic weight 87.62.
An arthropod is an invertebrate animal having an exoskeleton (external skeleton), a segmented body, and jointed appendages.
Aerobic exercise and fitness can be contrasted with anaerobic exercise, of which strength training and short-distance running are the most salient examples.
The two types of exercise differ by the duration and intensity of muscular contractions involved, as well as by how energy is generated within the muscle.
In most conditions, anaerobic exercise is accompanied by aerobic exercises because the less efficient anaerobic metabolism must supplement the aerobic system due to energy demands that exceed the aerobic system's capacity.
What is generally called aerobic exercise might be better termed "solely aerobic", because it is designed to be low-intensity enough not to generate lactate via pyruvate fermentation, so that all carbohydrate is aerobically turned into energy.
Complement C2, a proenzyme, C1 cleaves it to form a fragment that goes on to become the enzyme site for C3 and C5 convertase and another that relates to angio-edema.
C2 deficiencies are by far the common complement deficiencies in causcians.
C2 is consumed in angio-edma, and many kinds of infections because of increased consumption.
FANCC gene determines the risk of developing Fanconi anemia-C disease.
Specifically, the IVS4+4 A to T mutation is the only Fanconi anemia complementation group C mutation reported in the Ashkenazi Jewish population.
Rickettsia conorii is one of the etiologic agents of spotted fever rickettsiosis, which encompasses a wide variety of conditions, from mild to severe.
R. conorii causes Mediterranean spotted fever, also known as boutonneuse fever, which is found in Europe, the Middle East, the Indian subcontinent, and Africa.
Symptoms include fever, headache, myalgias, and rash, and infection is associated with significant morbidity and mortality.
The MFN2 gene (mitofusin 2) is located on chromosome 1p36.22.
This gene encodes a mitochondrial membrane protein that participates in mitochondrial fusion and contributes to the maintenance and operation of the mitochondrial network.
This protein is involved in the regulation of vascular smooth muscle cell proliferation, and it may play a role in the pathophysiology of obesity.
Mutations in this gene cause Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease type 2A2, and hereditary motor and sensory neuropathy VI, which are both disorders of the peripheral nervous system.
Defects in this gene have also been associated with early-onset stroke.
Two transcript variants encoding the same protein have been identified.
Major histocompatibility complex, class II, DR beta 3, also known as HLA-DRB3, is a human gene.
Abeta 42 level is elevated in individuals whose chromosomes carry the genetic mutations characteristic of the early form of Alzheimer's.
Scrapie is a fatal, degenerative disease affecting the central nervous system of sheep and goats.
It is in the same class of diseases as BSE in cattle and Chronic Wasting Disease in elk and deer.
Transmission of the classical scrapie agent is not completely understood but apparently healthy sheep infected with the agent can transmit disease.
The infecting agent or prion is a mal-formed version (PrPsc) of a normal protein (PrP) found in all animals.
The malformation of the normal prion proteins occurs when they are exposed to the mal-formed version of the protein.
The normal prion proteins may be more or less susceptible to malformation when they are exposed to the mal-formed protein based on their genetic makeup.
Resistance or susceptibility has been linked to the presence of certain amino acids at various locations within the normal protein.
Genotyping determines the amino acids present at specific locations or codons in the prion protein.
These are reported as a pair of one character amino acid codes such as RR, RH, QQ, etc.
This testing does not diagnosis Scrapie, but is an important tool for selecting genetically resistant animals for breeding and eradication.
Codons associated with susceptibility/resistance to scrapie include codon 112, 136, 141, 154 and 171.
Codon 141 codes for either phenylalanine (F) or leucine (L).
The presence of F at codon 141 has been associated with increased susceptibility to Nor98 or an atypical form of scrapie.
Benperidol is a butyrophenone antipsychotic drug with a high neuroleptic potency.
It is used for the treatment of schizophrenia, to control anti-social hypersexual behavior, and sometimes prescribed to sex offenders as a condition of their parole.
Benperidol is currently availble in European market but not in the US.
Brand names include Anquil, Benperidol-neuraxpharm, and Frenactil.
An antibiotic produced by Streptomyces lincolnensis var.
It has been used in the treatment of staphylococcal, streptococcal, and Bacteroides fragilis infections.
Phl p 12 is a pollen profilin.
It has the characteristics of a minor allergen, binding IgE antibodies from approximately 15-30% of grass pollen-allergic subjects with varying proportions in different geographical regions.
Pronouns are words used instead of a noun or noun phrase.
They are linguistic tools that we use to refer to people.
Examples include: she/her/hers/herself, he/him/his/himself, ze/zir/zirs/zirself, they/them/their/theirs/themselves.
Understanding which pronoun(s) to use when referring to someone is important for providing affirming health care.
Sapele, Sapelli, or Aboudikro (Entandrophragma cylindricum) is a large tree, up to 45 m high (rarely 60 m), native to tropical Africa.
Decenedioic acid is an unsaturated dicarboxylic acid.
Its level increases in patients with medium chain acyl-CoA dehydrogenase deficiency, which is a disorder of fatty acid oxidation.
Flavivirus is a genus of the family Flaviviridae that includes the West Nile virus, dengue virus, tick-borne encephalitis virus, yellow fever virus, and several other viruses which may cause encephalitis.
Flaviviruses are named from the yellow fever virus, the type virus for the family; flavus means yellow in Latin.
Yellow fever in turn was named because of its propensity to cause yellow jaundice in victims.
Flaviviruses share a common size (40-65 nm), symmetry (enveloped, icosahedral nucleocapsid), nucleic acid (positive-sense, single stranded RNA approximately 10,000-11,000 bases), and appearance in the electron microscope.
These viruses are transmitted by the bite from an infected arthropod (mosquito or tick).
Human infections with these viruses are typically incidental, as humans are unable to replicate the virus to high enough titres to reinfect arthropods and thus continue the virus life cycle.
The exceptions to this are yellow fever and dengue viruses, which still require mosquito vectors, but are well-enough adapted to humans as to not necessarily depend upon animal hosts (although both continue have important animal transmission routes as well).
Other virus transmission routes include handling infected animal carcasses, blood transfusion, child birth and through consumption of unpasteurised milk products.
The transmission from animals to humans without an intermediate vector arthropod is thought to be unlikely.
For example, early tests with yellow fever showed that the disease is not contagious.
Angle defined by Subspinale (A point), Nasion, and Supramentale (B point)
A narcotic used as a pain medication.
It appears to be an agonist at kappa opioid receptors and an antagonist or partial agonist at mu opioid receptors.
A 1:1 molar complex of heme or hematin and albumin formed after the dissociation of methemoglobin into heme or hematin and globin in plasma.
This complex, which imparts a coffee-brown color to plasma, occurs in hemolytic and hemorrhagic disorders.
Its presence in plasma is used as a test to differentiate between hemorrhagic and edematous pancreatitis.
Urinary metabolite for propofol
An albumin obtained from the white of eggs.
It is a member of the serpin superfamily.
HLA Bw4 and Bw6 epitopes were the the original HLA B distinctions recognized serologically.
Since they represent epitopes shared by a number of different HLA antigens, they are called "public" epitopes, and could be considered supertypes.
Either the Bw4 or the Bw6 epitope is expressed by virtually all HLA-B molecules, whereas Bw4 also is found on a few HLA-A proteins.
The PTPN11 gene (protein tyrosine phosphatase, non-receptor type 11) is located on chromosome 12q24.
The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the protein tyrosine phosphatase (PTP) family.
PTPs are known to be signaling molecules that regulate a variety of cellular processes including cell growth, differentiation, mitotic cycle, and oncogenic transformation.
This PTP contains two tandem Src homology-2 domains, which function as phospho-tyrosine binding domains and mediate the interaction of this PTP with its substrates.
This PTP is widely expressed in most tissues and plays a regulatory role in various cell signaling events that are important for a diversity of cell functions, such as mitogenic activation, metabolic control, transcription regulation, and cell migration.
Mutations in this gene are a cause of Noonan syndrome as well as acute myeloid leukemia.
Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
Not to be confused with the "true" Date palm tree (Phoenix dactylifera) which is cultivated for its fruit.
Phoenix canariensis is native to the Canary Islands in the Atlantic Ocean off northeast Africa.
These Palms are popular landscape items around the world, particularly in coastal regions with Mediterranean climates.
Asthma, allergic rhinitis, allergic conjunctivitis and contact urticaria may occur following contact with pollen from this tree.
Leuprorelin or leuprolide acetate is a GnRH analog.
Leuprolide may be used in the treatment of hormone-responsive cancers such as prostate cancer or breast cancer, estrogen-dependent conditions (such as endometriosis or uterine fibroids), to treat precocious puberty, and to control ovarian stimulation in In Vitro Fertilization (IVF).
It is considered a possible treatment for paraphilias.
A serotype of Salmonella enterica which is an etiologic agent of gastroenteritis in man and other animals.
Linoleoylcarnitine is a primary marker for Carnitine palmitoyltransferase I deficiency, Carnitine acylcarnitine translocase deficiency, and Carnitine palmitoyltransferase II deficiency.
Secondary marker for Long-chain L-3-Hydroxy dehydrogenase deficiency, Trifunctional protein deficiency, and Carnitine uptake defect.
A group of two-ring heterocyclic compounds consisting of a benzene ring fused to a diazepine ring.
Permitted is any degree of hydrogenation, any substituents and any H-isomer.
Alpha-hydroxyalprazolam is a metabolite of both alprazolam and adinazolam.
Alprazolam (trade name Xanax) is an anxiolytic of the benzodiazepine class of psychoactive drugs.
Alprazolam binds to specific sites on the GABAA gamma-amino-butyric acid receptor.
Adinazolam (brand name Deracyn) is a benzodiazepine derivative possessing anxiolytic, anticonvulsant, sedative, and antidepressant properties.
Alpha-hydroxyalprazolam belongs to the family of benzodiazepines.
Chloroethane or monochloroethane, commonly known by its old name ethyl chloride, is a chemical compound with chemical formula C2H5Cl, once widely used in producing tetra-ethyl lead, a gasoline additive.
It is a colorless, flammable gas or refrigerated liquid with a faintly sweet odor.
Ethyl chloride is the least toxic of the chloroethanes.
Like other chlorinated hydrocarbons, it is a central nervous system depressant, albeit a less potent one than many similar compounds.
People breathing its vapors at less than 1% concentration in air usually experience no symptoms.
At higher concentrations, victims usually exhibit symptoms similar to those of alcohol intoxication.
Breathing its vapors at 15% or higher is often fatal.
Studies on the effects of chronic ethyl chloride exposure in animals have given inconsistent results, and there exist no data for its long-term effects on humans.
Some studies have reported that prolonged exposure can produce liver or kidney damage, or uterine cancer in mice, but these data have been difficult to reproduce.
Chloroethane is not classifiable as to its carcinogenicity to humans (Group 3).
Nicotinamide, also known as niacinamide and nicotinic acid amide, is the amide of nicotinic acid (vitamin B3).
Nicotinamide is a water-soluble vitamin and is part of the vitamin B group.
Nicotinic acid, also known as niacin, is converted to niacinamide in vivo, and though the two are identical in their vitamin functions, niacinamide does not have the same pharmacologic and toxic effects of niacin, which occur incidental to niacin's conversion.
Thus niacinamide does not reduce cholesterol or cause flushing, although nicotinamide may be toxic to the liver at doses exceeding 3 g/day for adults.
In cells, niacin is incorporated into nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide (NAD) and nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate (NADP), although the pathways for nicotinamide and nicotinic acid are very similar.
NAD+ and NADP+ are coenzymes in a wide variety of enzymatic oxidation-reduction reactions.
Serratia marcescens is an important cause of hospital-acquired urinary tract and bloodstream infections.
The gyrB gene is conserved among strains of S Marcescens, and therefore, the presence of the gene in clinical specimens can be used to identify this organism as one of the pathogens responsible for a specific infection.
Plasma cells are fully differentiated B lymphocytes that produce and secrete a specific antibody.
Plasma cells typically produce a mixture of kappa and lambda light chains, but monotypic (or monoclonal) plasma cells produce either elevated kappa or lambda light chains.
Monotypic plasma cells are characteristic of disorders such as leukemia and multiple myeloma.
The use of multi-parameter flow cytometry makes it possible to analyze large numbers of cells that distinguish intracellular antigens.
Not only does such technology improve the diagnosis of monotypic populations, but it also is important for monitoring treatment and demonstrating smoldering disease.
Rhizopus nigricans is a fungus commonly known as bread mold and is the most common species of Rhizopus.
It is found on old food and in soils and even in children's sandboxes.
The genus contains some 50 species and bread mold is sometimes confused with species of Mucor or other species of Rhizopus like Rhizopus oryzae.
The spores, dispersed in hot dry weather, contain allergenic proteins with 31 distinct allergens, which can produce respiratory and nasal symptoms in concentration (chronic cough, dyspnea, chest tightness, chronic phlegm, snuffle, snizzle and allergic rhinitis).
Food handling workers are particularly at risk if they are mold allergic.
The AR gene (androgen receptor) is located on chromosome Xq12.
The androgen receptor gene is more than 90 kb long and codes for a protein that has 3 major functional domains: the N-terminal domain, DNA-binding domain, and androgen-binding domain.
The protein functions as a steroid-hormone activated transcription factor.
Upon binding the hormone ligand, the receptor dissociates from accessory proteins, translocates into the nucleus, dimerizes, and then stimulates transcription of androgen responsive genes.
This gene contains 2 polymorphic trinucleotide repeat segments that encode polyglutamine and polyglycine tracts in the N-terminal transactivation domain of its protein.
Expansion of the polyglutamine tract causes spinal bulbar muscular atrophy (Kennedy disease).
Mutations in this gene are also associated with complete androgen insensitivity (CAIS).
Two alternatively spliced variants encoding distinct isoforms have been described.
The CDKN1C gene (cyclin dependent kinase inhibitor 1C) is located on chromosome 11p15.4.
This gene is imprinted, with preferential expression of the maternal allele.
The encoded protein is a tight-binding, strong inhibitor of several G1 cyclin/Cdk complexes and a negative regulator of cell proliferation.
Mutations in this gene are implicated in sporadic cancers and Beckwith-Wiedemann syndorome, suggesting that this gene is a tumor suppressor candidate.
Three transcript variants encoding two different isoforms have been found for this gene.
Acute kidney injury (AKI), formerly known as acute renal failure, describes the rapid loss of the kidney's ability to excrete urine.
Decreased urine output, elevated blood levels of the nitrogen metabolic products urea nitrogen and creatinine, and the accumulation in the blood of metabolic acids including potassium and phosphates, are symptoms of and factors used to diagnose AKI.
The incidence of AKI is especially high in critically ill patients who often have comorbidities.
Treatment is only supportive.
The discovery of biomarkers related to AKI have sparked hope that AKI, including insulin-like growth factor binding protein 7 (IGFBP-7) and tissue inhibitor of metalloproteinase 2 (TIMP-2), may help with earlier diagnosis of AKI.
Cefoxitin is a second generation Cephalosporin.
Less active against staphylococci and streptococci than first generation cephalosporins, but active against anaerobes including Bacteroides fragilis; active against gram-negative enteric bacilli including E. coli, Klebsiella, and Proteus; used predominantly for respiratory tract, skin and skin structure, bone and joint, urinary tract and gynecologic as well as septicemia; surgical prophylaxis; intra-abdominal infections and other mixed infections; indicated for bacterial Eikenella corrodens infections.
Bunyamwera virus (BUNV) was isolated in 1943 from Aedes mosquitoes collected in the Semliki Forest, Uganda during yellow fever surveillance efforts.
BUNV is a negative-sense single-stranded RNA virus.
BUNV belongs to the family Peribunyaviridae, genus Orthobunyavirus.
The vectors are mosquitoes including Aedes and Ae.
The virus causes disease in livestock animals, avian species, and humans.
BUNV generally produces mild symptoms including fever, headache, joint pain, and rash, but in some cases causes severe encephalitis .
Hippuric acid is biological renal marker used to monitor exposure to toluene or benzyl alchonol.
Hippuric acid and methyl hippuric acid are the principal metabolities of toluene and xylene, respectively.
Occupational exposure to these chemicals can be monitored by measuring urinary metabolite excretion.
Typical excretion of hippuric acid in non-exposed patients is 1.0 g/g creatinine.
Methyl hippuric acid is not found in non-exposed patients.
Homocysteine is a sulfur-containing amino acid that arises during methionine metabolism.
Although its concentration in plasma is only about 10 micromolar (uM), even moderate hyperhomocysteinemia is associated with increased incidence of cardiovascular disease and Alzheimer's disease.
Elevations in plasma homocysteine are commonly found as a result of vitamin deficiencies, polymorphisms of enzymes of methionine metabolism, and renal disease.
Pyridoxal, folic acid, riboflavin, and Vitamin B(12) are all required for methionine metabolism, and deficiency of each of these vitamins result in elevated plasma homocysteine.
A polymorphism of methylenetetrahydrofolate reductase (C677T), which is quite common in most populations with a homozygosity rate of 10-15 %, is associated with moderate hyperhomocysteinemia, especially in the context of marginal folate intake.
Plasma homocysteine is inversely related to plasma creatinine in patients with renal disease.
This is due to an impairment in homocysteine removal in renal disease.
The role of these factors, and of modifiable lifestyle factors, in affecting methionine metabolism and in determining plasma homocysteine levels is discussed.
Homocysteine is an independent cardiovascular disease (CVD) risk factor modifiable by nutrition and possibly exercise.
Homocysteine was first identified as an important biological compound in 1932 and linked with human disease in 1962 when elevated urinary homocysteine levels were found in children with mental retardation.
This condition, called homocysteinuria, was later associated with premature occlusive CVD, even in children.
These observations led to research investigating the relationship of elevated homocysteine levels and CVD in a wide variety of populations including middle age and elderly men and women with and without traditional risk factors for CVD. ,
The fetus's risk of having trisomy 18 can be estimated based on maternal age, fetal nuchal translucency (NT) thickness, and maternal serum or plasma levels for free beta-human chorionic gonadotropin (beta-hCG) and pregnancy-associated plasma protein-A (PAPP-A).
Reliable risk calculations for trisomy 18 and other trisomies (13, 21) in first-trimester screening depends on good estimates of the medians for fetal NT thickness, free beta-hCG, and PAPP-A from unaffected pregnancies.
Trisomy 18, also called Edwards syndrome, is caused by the presence of three copies of chromosome 18 in each cell rather than two.
Edwards syndrome is associated with intrauterine growth retardation and fetal demise, and liveborn infants with Edwards syndrome typically have low birth weight, congenital heart disease, and characteristic physical features.
Less than 10% of liveborn infants with Edwards syndrome live past their first year.
The general population risk of Edwards syndrome is 1 out of 5,000 live births, and the risk for Edwards syndrome increases with increasing maternal age.
Distance from the Labius inferius to Subnasale
HPV type 52 has been associated with low grade cervical abnormalities, cancer precursors, and anogenital cancers.
Glycoprotein hormone, secreted chiefly by the kidney in the adult and the liver in the fetus, that acts on erythroid stem cells of the bone marrow to stimulate proliferation and differentiation.
Mus domesticus is the most common Mouse that is a commensal of man.
But in the familes Muridae and Cricetidae are many wild species of Mouse, and rarer commensals such as the Doormouse.
Direct or indirect contact with animal allergens frequently causes sensitisation.
Tetramethylenedisulfotetramine (commonly known as tetramine) is a Chinese neurotoxic rodenticide which has accounted for numerous intentional and unintentional poisonings in China.
In May 2002, the first known case of human occurred in New York City.
The clinical presentation after tetramethylenedisulfotetramine exposure is dose dependent, and the most recognized complication is status epilepticus.
Poisonings may be fatal within hours.
No known antidote exists, and treatment is mainly supportive.
An alpha-adrenergic agonist used as a mydriatic, nasal decongestant, and cardiotonic agent.
A semisynthetic antibiotic related to TETRACYCLINE.
It is more readily absorbed than TETRACYCLINE and can be used in lower doses.
Carbohydrate deficient transferrin detects chronic ethanol use (greater than 50 g/day for two weeks).
Transferrin is a plasma protein that carries iron through the bloodstream to the bone marrow, where red blood cells are manufactured, as well as to the liver and spleen.
Structurally, transferrin is a polypeptide with two N-linked polysaccharide chains.
These polysaccharide chains are branched with sialic acid residues.
Sialic acid is a monosaccharide carbohydrate.
Various forms of transferrin exist, with differing levels of sialylation, with the most common form being tetrasialotransferrin, with four sialic acid chains.
In people who consume significant quantities of alcohol (usually more than 4 or 5 alcoholic beverages a day for two weeks or more), the proportion of transferrin with zero, one, or two sialic acid chains is increased.
These are referred to as carbohydrate-deficient transferrins, and are an important marker for alcohol abuse.
Used with other tests, such as gamma glutamyl transferase (GGT), aspartate aminotransferase (AST), and alanine aminotransferase (ALT), carbohydrate-deficient transferrin can be a useful tool in identifying problem drinking, such as alcohol abuse or alcoholism.
This particular test is not suitable for the evaluation of patients suspected of having congenital glycosylation disorders.
Information from ARUP Laboratories and Wikipedia.
The prothrombin time (PT) and its derived measures of prothrombin ratio (PR) and international normalized ratio (INR) are measures of the extrinsic pathway of coagulation.
They are used to determine the clotting tendency of blood, in the measure of warfarin dosage, liver damage and vitamin K status.
The reference range for prothrombin time is usually around 12-15 seconds; the normal range for the INR is 0.8-1.2.
It is used in conjunction with the activated partial thromboplastin time (aPTT) which measures the intrinsic pathway.
PT is sometimes used as the third screening test in the lupus anticoagulant testing algorithm and is included in the LOINC LA aPTT & dRVVT & PT panel.
Sincalide is a cholecystokinetic drug used as a diagnostic aid to detect disorders of the gallbladder or pancreas.
It is injected in patients to induce gallbladder contraction and/or pancreatic secretion.
The dose, duration of infusion, and normal values used in clinical practice vary considerably among different centers.
Celtis occidentalis, commonly known as the Common hackberry, is a medium-size deciduous tree native to North America.
It is also known as the nettletree, beaverwood, northern hackberry, and American hackberry
Mutations in the SERPING1 gene causes deficiency of the C1 inhibitor (C1Inh) protein which leads to hereditary angioedema (HAE types I and II), a rare, life-threatening disease causing spontaneous edema of the submucosal layers with symptoms of swelling due to leakage of fluid from blood vessels into connective tissue., Missense, frameshift, splicing defects, and large deletion mutations have been identified in families with HAE.
Propylparaben, the n-propyl ester of p-hydroxybenzoic acid, occurs as a natural substance found in many plants and some insects, although it is manufactured synthetically for use in cosmetics, pharmaceuticals, and foods.
Clindamycin is a semi-synthetic derivative of lincomycin active against most gram-positive and anaerobic bacteria.
Clindamycin together with pyrimethamine has been used as alternative treatment for toxoplasmic encephalitis in AIDS patients.
Solerol is a volatile component identified in extracts of grape wines and numerous fruits, with aroma being among the most important factors in determining wine character and quality.. Solerol (4,5-dihydroxyhexanoic acid lactone) also appears to be a marker for Succinic semialdehyde dehydrogenase (SSADH) deficiency and probably arises from the reaction of succinic semialdehyde with an intermediate in the pyruvate dehydrogenase pathway.
SSADH is a defect in gamma-aminobutyric acid catabolism, resulting in the accumulation of gamma-hydroxybutyric acid (GHB) and causing neurological and cognitive disorders of varying severity.
The complement system is a key part of the immune system and inflammatory response.
The system has three pathways: 1) the classic pathway, 2) the alternative pathway, and 3) the lectin activation pathway.
Complement C7 is involved in the alternate complement pathway and one of the late activation complement proteins along with C5, C6, C8, and C9.
Patients with deficiencies of the late complement proteins are unable to form the membrane attack complex (MAC), the end result of the complement activation cascade.
Patients with C7 deficiency have increased susceptibility to neisserial infections and some have developed systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE), rheumatoid arthritis (RA), scleroderma, and pyoderma gangrenosum.
Complement tests measure either the quantity or the activity (function) of complement proteins.
In some cases, complement proteins are present but not functional, in which case a functional assay is used to detect the deficiency.
Ethionamide (2-ethylthioisonicotinamide, Trecator SC®) is an antibiotic used in the treatment of tuberculosis.
Shellbark hickory (Carya laciniosa) in the Juglandaceae or Walnut family is also called shagbark hickory, bigleaf shagbark hickory, kingnut, big, bottom, thick, or western shellbark, attesting to some of its characteristics.
The SFTPB gene (surfactant protein B) is located on chromosome 2p12-p11.2.
This gene encodes the pulmonary-associated surfactant protein B (SPB), an amphipathic surfactant protein essential for lung function and homeostasis after birth.
Pulmonary surfactant is a surface-active lipoprotein complex composed of 90% lipids and 10% proteins which include plasma proteins and apolipoproteins SPA, SPB, SPC and SPD.
The surfactant is secreted by the alveolar cells of the lung and maintains the stability of pulmonary tissue by reducing the surface tension of fluids that coat the lung.
The SPB enhances the rate of spreading and increases the stability of surfactant monolayers in vitro.
Multiple mutations in this gene have been identified, which cause pulmonary surfactant metabolism dysfunction type 1, also called pulmonary alveolar proteinosis due to surfactant protein B deficiency, and are associated with fatal respiratory distress in the neonatal period.
Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding the same protein have been identified.
Fumarase deficiency is characterized by polyhydramnios and fetal brain abnormalities.
In the newborn period, findings include severe neurologic abnormalities, poor feeding, failure to thrive, and hypotonia.
Mutations in the production and development of fumarase have led to the discovery of several fumarase-related diseases in humans.
These include benign mesenchymal tumors of the uterus, leiomyomatosis and renal cell carcinoma, and fumarase deficiency.
Germinal mutations in fumarase are associated with two distinct conditions.
If the enzyme has missense mutation and in-frame deletions from the 3' end, fumarase deficiency results.
If it contains heterozygous 5' missense mutation and deletions (ranging from one base pair to the whole gene), then leiomyomatosis and renal cell carcinoma/
Reed's syndrome (multiple cutaneous and uterine leiomyomatosis) could result.
Cefetamet is a cephalosporin antibiotic.
Synthetic cannabinoids are a family of compounds that, when consumed, can mimic the psychoactive effects of cannabis.
Designer brand name products such as K2 and Spice, both of which have largely become genericized trademarks used to refer to any synthetic cannabis product, contain varying mixes of these synthetic compounds.
Another example is Kronic, sold in Australia.
The following list includes many of synthetic cannabis chemicals tested for: JWH-018; JWH-018 6-hydroxyindole; JWH-018 N-5-hydroxypentyl; JWH-200 5-hydroxy JWH-018; AM2201; JWH-073 N-(3-hydroxybutane); JWH-073; JWH-073 N-Butanol; JWH-018 N-pentanoic acid; JWH-018 5-hydroxyindole; JWH-073 N-Butanoic acid; JWH-019; JWH-018 4-hydroxyindole; JWH-398; JWH-122.
Bovine leukemia virus (BLV) is a bovine virus closely related to HTLV-I, a human tumour virus.
Fraxinus nigra (Black Ash) is a species of Fraxinus (ash) native to much of eastern Canada and the northeastern United States, from western Newfoundland west to southeastern Manitoba, and south to Illinois and northern Virginia.
Tissue inhibitor of metalloproteinases-1 (TIMP-1) is a widely expressed, secreted 28kDa protein.
It functions primarily to inhibit members of a large family of metalloproteinases (MPs) and, as a result, is involved in many of the same pathophysiological processes as MPs, e.g. wound healing, ovulation, angiogenesis, and cancer cell metastasis.
However, it has also been found that elevated TIMP-1 expression in tumors, e.g. stromal cells, is correlated with accelerated tumor progression and poor prognosis.
Injectable form of VITAMIN B 12 that has been used therapeutically to treat VITAMIN B 12 DEFICIENCY.
The total of 25-hydroxyvitamin D3 (calcidiol) + 25-hydroxyvitamin D2 (ercalcidiol), which is often reported simply as 25-hydroxyvitamin D, or 25-OH-D.
Saquinavir is a Protease Inhibitor (PI) antiretroviral drug used in the treatment of HIV.
Drug resistance reports assist with treatment decisions.
Aspergillus, the mold (a type of fungus) that causes aspergillosis, is very common both indoors and outdoors, and for people who have weakened immune systems, breathing in Aspergillus spores can cause an infection in the lungs or sinuses which can spread to other parts of the body.
There are approximately 180 species of Aspergillus, but fewer than 40 of them are known to cause infections in humans.
Aspergillus fumigatus is the most common cause of human Aspergillus infections.
Other common species include A. flavus, A. terreus, and A. niger.
Teichoic acids are bacterial polysaccharides of glycerol phosphate or ribitol phosphate linked via phosphodiester bonds.
Lysis of Gram-positive bacteria and release of the teichoic acid into the bloodstream may cause fever, blood vessel dilation and possibly shock and subsequent death.
Teichoic acid can also be used by bacteria to attach to mucosal membranes.
Given their appearance in pyelonephritis, these should be seen in association with loose bacteria, white blood cells, and white blood cell casts.
Their discovery is likely rare, due to the infection-fighting efficiency of neutrophils, and the possibility of misidentification as a fine granular cast.
Blood type AB individuals are known as "universal receivers" because they can receive blood from any ABO type.
It is also the rarest of the blood groups.
It is most common in Japan, regions of China, and in Koreans, being present in about 10% of these populations.
Beck L, Blood groups and red cell antigens. .
Date on which the patient or participant completes participation in the trial.
White blood cells are incubated with dihydrorhodamine 123 (DHR) and catalase, then stimulated with Phorbol 12-Myristate 13-Acetate (PMA).
Dihydrorhodamine oxidation to rhodamine by the respiratory burst of the cell is measured by flow cytometry.
Results are reported as the ratio of the mean channel fluorescence of stimulated cells versus unstimulated cells, which yields a stimulation index (SI).
Drugs of abuse most often include alcohol, amphetamines, barbiturates, benzodiazepines, cocaine, methaqualone, and opioids.
In LOINC, sex refers to the biological sex of an organism, which is most commonly determined based on anatomy and physiology or genetic (chromosome) analysis.
Our definition is based on the World Health Organization's definition of sex and gender: sex (male, female) refers to biological and physiological characteristics, and gender (masculine, feminine) refers to socially constructed roles, behaviors, activities, and attributes.
Zopiclone-N-oxide is one of two metabolites of eszopiclone and is not pharmacologically active.
Eszopiclone is a cyclopyrrolones and a benzodiazepine receptor agonist derived from pyridine, pyrazine and piperazine and used to treat insomnia.
Its mechanism of action is to bind to the omega-1 subtype of the alpha subunit of gamma-aminobutyrate-benzodiazepine GABA receptor complex (GABA-A).
GABA-A is a chloride ionophore in the central nervous system, that when bound causes the chloride channels to open, leading to hyperpolarization, inhibition of neuronal firing, and an increase in the inhibition of GABA.
This sequence of events causes an hypnotic response in the patient and induces sleep.
Eszopiclone has insignificant anxiolytic activity and shows no evidence of causing increased liver enzymes in the blood.
A species of gram-negative bacteria causing contagious agalactia of SHEEP and GOATS.
The KIF6 gene encodes kinesin-like protein 6, which is part of a superfamily of motor proteins that play a role in intracellular transport.
Although KIF6 is not directly related to lipid metabolism, there is an association between KIF6 variants and increased risk for coronary heart disease.
One such variant is c.2155T>C (p.Trp719Arg; rs20455), which may also play a role in individual patient responses to statin therapy.
Vitamin C (L-ascorbic acid), is a water-soluble vitamin naturally present in some foods, added to others, and available as a dietary supplement.
Humans, unlike most animals, cannot synthesize vitamin C endogenously, so it is an essential dietary component.
Vitamin C is required for the biosynthesis of collagen, L-carnitine, certain neurotransmitters, and involved in protein metabolism.
Vitamin C is also an important physiological antioxidant and has been shown to regenerate other antioxidants, including alpha-tocopherol (vitamin E).
Insufficient vitamin C intake causes scurvy.
Fruits and vegetables are the best sources of vitamin C. Citrus fruits, tomatoes and tomato juice, and potatoes are major contributors of vitamin C. Other good food sources include red and green peppers, kiwifruit, broccoli, strawberries, Brussels sprouts, and cantaloupe.
The vitamin C content of food may be reduced by prolonged storage and by cooking because ascorbic acid is water soluble and destroyed by heat.
MyoD is a protein with a key role in regulating muscle differentiation.
MyoD belongs to a family of proteins known as myogenic regulatory factors (MRFs).
These bHLH (basic helix loop helix) transcription factors act sequentially in myogenic differentiation.
MRF family members include MyoD, Myf5, myogenin, and MRF4 (Myf6).
MyoD is one of the earliest markers of myogenic commitment.
MyoD is expressed in activated satellite cells, but not in quiescent satellite cells.
Although MyoD marks myoblast commitment, muscle development is not dramatically ablated in mouse mutants lacking the MyoD gene.
This is likely to be due to functional redundancy from Myf5.
A liver fibrosis score is a noninvasive method used to determine the presence and degree of liver fibrosis in a patient based on a variety of different parameters (e.g., lab tests, age, and gender) depending on the method used..
Different methods used to calculate a patient's liver fibrosis score include the Enhanced Liver Fibrosis (ELF) test, nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) fibrosis score, HepaScore, FibroMeter, and FibroSURE.
An element with atomic symbol O, atomic number 8, and atomic weight 16.
It constitutes the most abundant element on earth and is essential for respiration.
Tetrahydrocortisol is the most powerful natural angiostatic steroid.
It is involved in C21-Steroid hormone metabolism pathway (KEGG).
A solvent for oils, fats, lacquers, varnishes, rubber waxes, and resins, and a starting material in the manufacturing of organic compounds.
Poisoning by inhalation, ingestion or skin absorption is possible and may be fatal.
An antibiotic produced by Streptomyces fradiae.
Grass allergen mix 7 contains Bermuda grass, Meadow fescue, Rye grass, Timothy grass and Cultivated rye IgE antibodies.
Testing for IgE antibodies may be used to help diagnose an allergic disease or the cause of an anaphylactic episode in a patient.
Caprine arthritis encephalitis virus (abbr.
CAEV) is a retrovirus that infects goats
Organophosphate pesticides are commonly used insecticides in agriculture and public health applications.
Although organophosphates are beneficial for killing a broad variety of insects, human overexposure to this pesticide can cause neurological dysfunction and excess acetylcholine in both the peripheral and central nervous system.
Overexposure to an organophosphate pesticide is typically caused by inhalation, dermal contact, or ingestion of contaminated foods.
Once in the human body, 75% of the organophosphorous pesticide is metabolized into dialkyl phosphorous.
Urinary dialkyl phosphorous metabolite levels can be monitored to determine recent exposure to organophosphate pesticides.
The nucleus of a cell contains the body's genetic material.
It is the site of transcriptional regulation, RNA processing and DNA synthesis and transcription.
Clonidine is a direct-acting adrenergic agonist prescribed historically as an anti-hypertensive agent.
It has found new uses, including treatment of some types of neuropathic pain, opioid detoxification, and, off-label, to counter the side effects of stimulant medications such as methylphenidate or Adderall.
It is becoming a more accepted treatment for insomnia, because clonidine is less addictive than most prescription sleep aids.
Clonidine is increasingly used in conjunction with stimulants to treat attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD), where it's given in late afternoon andor evening for sleep, and because it sometimes helps moderate ADHD-associated impulsive and oppositional behavior, and may reduce tics.
Clonidine can also be used in the treatment of Tourette syndrome.
7-Hydroxychlorpromazine is one of the major metabolites of chlorpromazine, an antipsychotic medication used to treat schizophrenia.
It is produced in the liver when chlorpromazine is metabolized, and is an active metabolite that crosses the blood-brain barrier.
Catecholamines are synthesized in the adrenal medulla, brain, and sympathetic nervous system.
Urine catecholamine fractionation is often performed to diagnose catecholamine-secreting neoplasms, of which more than 90% are adrenal pheochromocytomas.
Increases in epinephrine and/or norepinephrine are seen with adrenal pheochromocytomas.
Normally, catecholamines are taken up by storage particles, excreted into urine, or converted to metabolites(metanephrine, normetanephrine, methoxyhydroxyphenylglycol, vanillylmandelic acid).
Information from Jacobs and DeMott Laboratory Test Handbook, 5th edition, DS Jacobs, WR DeMott and DK Oxley, 2001.
Carbonyl sulfide is the chemical compound with the formula OCS.
Commonly written as COS, it is a colorless flammable gas with an unpleasant odor.
It is a linear molecule consisting of a carbonyl group double bonded to a sulfur atom.
Carbonyl sulfide can be considered to be intermediate between carbon dioxide and carbon disulfide, both of which are isoelectronic with it.
High concentrations (>1000 ppm) can cause sudden collapse, convulsions, and death from respiratory paralysis.
Occasional fatalities have been reported, practically without local irritation or olfactory warning
Molindone is an indole derivative antipsychotic and is used to treat schizophrenia and other psychoses.
The drug has also proven itself useful in the treatment of aggressive undersocialized conduct disorder.
Molindone has a lower affinity for dopamine receptor D2 than other antipsychotics and has a relatively low affinity for dopamine receptors D1.
Cytomegalovirus UL97 mutations are associated with resistance to gancyclovir.
Neurospora species are molds with broadly spreading colonies, with abundant production of ascomata.
Ascomata are superficial or immersed, perithecial and ostiolate or cleistothecial and non-ostiolate, hairy or glabrous, dark colored.
Peridium membranaceous, asci cylindrical, clavate or subspherical, with a persistent or evanescent wall, usually with a thickened and non-amyloid annular structure at the apex, usually 8-spored.
Ascospores broadly fusiform, ellipsoidal, or nearly spherical, unicellular, hyaline to yellowish brown or olive-brown, becoming dark and opaque at maturity, ascospore wall with longitudinal ribs or pitted, occasionally nearly smooth, 1-2 (but rarely up to 12) germ pores disposed at the ends of the ascospores, gelatinous sheaths or appendages are absent.
Anamorphs are known in only a relatively small number of species, which belong to the fungi imperfecti genus Chrysonilia.
The type species of the genus is Neurospora sitophila Shear.
Thymine is one of the four nucleobases in the nucleic acid of DNA that are represented by the letters G-C-A-T.
The others are adenine, guanine, and cytosine.
Thymine is also known as 5-methyluracil, a pyrimidine nucleobase.
As the name suggests, thymine may be derived by methylation of uracil at the 5th carbon.
In RNA, thymine is replaced with uracil in most cases.
In DNA, thymine(T) binds to adenine (A) via two hydrogen bonds, thus stabilizing the nucleic acid structures.
Thymine combined with deoxyribose creates the nucleoside deoxythymidine, which is synonymous with the term thymidine.
Thymidine can be phosphorylated with one, two, or three phosphoric acid groups, creating, respectively, TMP, TDP, or TTP (thymidine mono-, di-, or triphosphate).
One of the common mutations of DNA involves two adjacent thymines or cytosine, which, in presence of ultraviolet light, may form thymine dimers, causing "kinks" in the DNA molecule that inhibit normal function.
Thymine could also be a target for actions of 5-fluorouracil (5-FU) in cancer treatment.
5-FU can be a metabolic analog of thymine (in DNA synthesis) or uracil (in RNA synthesis).
Substitution of this analog inhibits DNA synthesis in actively-dividing cells.
Thymine bases are frequently oxidized to hydantoins over time after the death of an organism
The terms "Filbert" and "Hazel nut" are often used interchangeably for nuts from all plants in the genus Corylus, such as C. silvestris, C. maxima and C. colurna.
These wild nuts grow in clusters on the Hazel tree in temperate zones around the world.
Hazel is an aggressive spreader and is particularly common in Europe as a wild growth, where it has played a significant role in the development of the present forest ecology.
Archaeology shows that the nuts were a prehistoric food and the wood a building material, and that tree populations were not adversely affected by land clearance for Neolithic farming.
Hazel nuts are a common cause of food allergy
2,4-Dinitrotoluene (DNT) or Dinitro is an organic compound with the formula C6H3(CH3)(NO2)2.
This pale yellow crystalline solid is well known as a precursor to trinitrotoluene (TNT) but is mainly used in the polymer industry.
Dinitrotoluenes are highly toxic.
It converts hemoglobin into methemoglobin.
The CTRC gene (chymotrypsin C) is located on chromosome 1p36.21.
This gene encodes a member of the peptidase S1 family.
The encoded protein is a serum calcium-decreasing factor that has chymotrypsin-like protease activity.
Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been observed, but their full-length nature has not been determined.
Atomoxetine, brand name Strattera, is a nonstimulant noradrenaline uptake inhibitor and is effective in treating patients with attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD).
Atomexetine can be taken either as a daily or twice daily medication and has a low potential for abuse, which is useful for patients who have a history of substance abuse as well as patients who have comorbid anxiety or tics.
It is also useful for patients who do not want to take a controlled substance as Atomexetine is not a controlled substance in the United States.
Atomoxetine is rapidly absorbed, and has a high affinity and selecivity to inhibit norepinephrine uptake.
It also binds to areas with high distributions of noradrenergic neurons.
Common side effects of Atomoxetine are mild to moderate headache, abdominal pain, decreased appetite, vomiting, somnolence, and nausea.
Bolasterone is an anabolic steroid.
Streptococcus are a genus of spherical or ovoid bacteria whose organisms occur in pairs or chains.
They are catalase negative,non-spore-forming, facultative anaerobes.
Many species are commensals or parasites on man or animals, whereas some species, like Streptococcus pneumoniae and Streptococcus pyogenes are well characterized pathogens.
A few species are saprophytes and occur in the natural environment.
Temefos or Temephos (trade name Abate) is an organophosphate larvicide used to treat water infested with disease-carrying insects including mosquitoes, midges, and black fly larvae.
The superior-posterior angle between the H line (the most anterior superior point of the soft tissue chin and Labrale superius) and the soft tissue Nasion to soft tissue Pogonion line
BOB1, a novel 35kDa protein, found in B cell transcription and is found in immunoglobulin heavy and light chain gene promoters.
BOB1 interacts only with OCT1/2 enhancing transcription efficacy.
BOB1 can be found in its greatest concentrations in the spleen and kidney.
Quetiapine is an atypical antipsychotic that targets the serotonin 5-HT2 receptor as well as, to a lesser extent, dopamine D1 and D2 receptors.
Quetiapine is used to treat bipolar disorder, depression, and schizophrenia, and is primarily metabolized in the liver.
Repaglinide (Prandin in the U.S., GlucoNorm in Canada, NovoNorm elsewhere) is used for the treatment of type II diabetes.
It lowers blood glucose by stimulating the release of insulin from the pancreas.
It achieves this by closing ATP-dependent potassium channels in the membrane of the beta cells.
This depolarizes the beta cells, opening the cells' calcium channels, and the resulting calcium influx induces insulin secretion.
The half life of Repaglinide is 1 hour.
A serotype of SALMONELLA ENTERICA which is an agent of PARATYPHOID FEVER in Asia, Africa, and southern Europe.
The Acute Care Assessment System, or interRAI AC, was developed to identify older and disabled persons admitted to acute hospitals with conditions that may benefit from comprehensive specialist assessment.
The interRAI AC, first released in 2006, covers a wide range of clinical domains.
Assessments are carried out on two occasions.
Within 48 hours of admission, the individual's prehospital admission status and the status early in the hospital stay are recorded.
A second assessment is made late in the hospital stay (within 24-48 hours of discharge) to identify residual problems that require post-hospital follow-up and to facilitate outcome assessment.
Review assessments can be conducted during the stay when there is a significant change in status or when important discharge decisions are under consideration.
Aspergillus glaucus is a filamentous fungus.
It is a known allergen and irritant in addition to causing dermatitis and pneumonitis.
O-desmethylencainide (ODE) is one of the two active metabolites of encainide (MODE is the other).
ODE is poorly secreted by nearly 1/10 of the population and can accumulate to toxic levels.
Drostanolone (INN; also known as dromostanolone or Drolban) is an anabolic steroid.
Its main medical applications are to lower cholesterol levels, and as an antineoplastic agent in the treatment of some cancers.
It is most commonly marketed as the ester drostanolone propionate.
In chemistry, a phosphide is a compound of phosphorus with a less electronegative element or elements.
Fluphenazine is a typical antipsychotic drug used for the treatment of psychoses such as schizophrenia and acute manic phases of bipolar depression.
It belongs to the piperazine class of phenothiazines and is extremely potent; more potent than haloperidol and around fifty to seventy times the potency of chlorpromazine.
A species of haemophilus implicated in the sexually transmitted disease, chancroid.
Sheikh JI1, Yesavage JA, Brooks JO 3rd, Friedman L, Gratzinger P, Hill RD, Zadeik A, Crook T.Proposed factor structure of the Geriatric Depression Scale.
Calcium oxalate (Ca2) crystals are the most frequently observed crystals in urine, and 75% of renal calculi have calcium oxalate as a component.
Calcium oxalate crystals can form at any pH and have various microscopic morphologies.
It is estimated that about half of the oxalate in urine comes from ascorbic acid (vitamin C), which is a precursor to oxalate.
Calcium oxalate crystals are also associated with ethylene glycol ingestion, another oxalate precursor.
Hexanoic acid (C6:0) is a medium chain triglyceride (MCT) found naturally in various animal fats and oils.
MCTs are widely used for parenteral nutrition in individuals requiring supplemental nutrition.
C6:0 levels may be measured as part of a fatty acid panel to monitor dietary feeding in patients, such as newborns.
Indolelactate dehydrogenase participates in tryptophan metabolism and belongs to the family of oxidoreductases, specifically those acting on the CH-OH group of donor with NAD+ or NADP+ as acceptor.
The systematic name of this enzyme class is (indol-3-yl)lactate:NAD+ oxidoreductase.
The BMPR1A gene (bone morphogenetic protein receptor, type IA) is located on chromosome 10q22.3.
SMAD4 gene (SMAD family member 4) is located on chromosome 18q21.1.
Mutations in BMPR1A and SMAD4 are associated with Juvenile Polyposis syndrome (JPS).
Individuals with JPS, have an increased risk for colorectal cancer (40-50%) and gastric cancer (up to 21%, if multiple polyps are identified in the stomach).
The risk for small intestinal cancer and pancreatic cancer is also increased.
This test detects pathogenic variants in the BMPR1A and SMAD4 genes.
Francisella tularensis is a pathogenic species of gram-negative bacteria.
A member of the genus Francisella, F. tularensis is the causative agent of tularemia or rabbit fever.
Due to its ease of spread by aerosol and its high virulence, F. tularensis is classified as a Class A agent by the U.S. government.
Glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase (G6PD) deficiency is an X-linked recessive hereditary disease featuring nonimmune hemolytic anemia in response to a number of causes.
The classic allergy to consumption of broad beans has led to the commonly used term favism, derived from the Italian name of the broad bean, fava.
Besifloxacin (INN/USAN) is a fourth-generation fluoroquinolone antibiotic.
The marketed compound is besifloxacin hydrochloride.
It was developed by SSP Co. Ltd., Japan, and designated SS734.
SSP licensed U.S. and European rights to SS734 for ophthalmic use to InSite Vision Incorporated (OTCBB: INSV) in 2000.
InSite Vision developed an eye drop formulation (ISV-403) and conducted preliminary clinical trials before selling the product and all rights to Bausch & Lomb in 2003.
The eye drop was approved by the United States Food and Drug Administration (FDA) on May 29, 2009 and marketed under the trade name Besivance.
Besifloxacin has been found to inhibit production of pro-inflammatory cytokines in vitro.
Oriental cockroach is thought to be from Africa or south Russia but has colonised much of the world and become a major household pest in parts of America.
It is also sometimes referred to as the "Black beetle" or "Water bug" because of its dark-black appearance and tendency to harbour in damp locations.
Cockroach may commonly induce symptoms of asthma, allergic rhinitis, allergic conjunctivitis and allergic dermatitis in sensitised individuals.
These are the most common ailments attributable to Cockroach infestation of housing and are important public health problems.
Haemophilus influenza is a pleomorphic gram-negative coccobacillus.
H influenzae is divided into six serotype (A-F) based on their capsular polysaccharides.
The majority of haemophilus infections are caused by H influenza serotype B (HIB) which causes pneumonia, bacteremia, meningitis, epiglottitis, septic arthritis, cellulitis, otitis media, purulent pericarditis, endocarditis and osteomyelitis.
Infections with the remaining serotypes lead to similar disease processes as HIB.
Unencapsulated H influenzae that is not able to be typed (nontypable H influenzae) can cause ear infections in children and bronchitis in adults but also bacteremia and bacteremic pneumonia.
Nontypable H influenza is the main cause of invasive H influenzae infections in all age groups.
Transmission of H influenzae is by direct contact with respiratory aerosols.
Neonates can become infected with H influenza by aspirating amniotic fluid or through contact with genital tract secretions.
Nifoxipam is a benzodiazepine that is a minor metabolite of flunitrazepam.
Nifoxipam produces strong tranquillising and sleep-prolonging effects with a lower toxicity compared to lormetazepam and flunitrazepam in mice.
Succinate cytochrome c reductase (Complex II+III) is part of the electron transport system (ETS) and transfers electrons from succinate to cytochrome c through CoQ10.
The activity level of Complex II+III is measured as part of mitochondrial and metabolic testing to assess neurodegenerative diseases.
Hackberry (C. occidentalis), a tree native to the USA, grows 10-13 m in height.
Although C. tala was reported over 4 decades ago to be an important cause of hayfever in Argentina, affecting up to 44% of patients, very few studies have evaluated the significance of this tree pollen in allergy.
C. occidentalis and other species of Celtis are generally included in decades-old lists of hayfever plants or of plants with potentially causing hayfever.
The most important Hackberry for hayfever was reported to be C. occidentalis.
Asthma has not been described in this connection
Elevated sulfite levels can indicate deficiency of either Molybdenum cofactor deficiency or isolated sulfite oxidase deficiency, both of which are involved in the coversion of sulfite to sulfate in the body.
Trimethylamine is an organic compound with the formula N(CH3)3.
This colorless, hygroscopic, and flammable tertiary amine has a strong "fishy" odor in low concentrations and an ammonia-like odor at higher concentrations.
It is a gas at room temperature but is usually sold in pressurized gas cylinders or as a 40% solution in water.
Trimethylamine is a product of decomposition of plants and animals.
It is the substance mainly responsible for the odor often associated with fouling fish, some infections, and bad breath.
It is also associated with taking large doses of choline and carnitine.
Veterinary Medicine: Danofloxacin is a fluoroquinolone antibiotic used in veterinary medicine.
Oleoylcarnitine is a primary marker for Carnitine palmitoyltransferase I deficiency, Carnitine acylcarnitine translocase deficiency, and Carnitine palmitoyltransferase II deficiency.
Secondary marker for Long-chain L-3-Hydroxy dehydrogenase deficiency, Trifunctional protein deficiency, and Carnitine uptake defect.
The omega-6 polyunsaturated fatty acids are necessary nutrients that cannot be produced in the body.
They are essential to normal brain function and to growth and development.
In addition, omega-6 fatty acids help stimulate skin and hair growth, maintain bone health, regulate metabolism, and maintain the reproductive system.
The source of omega-6 fatty acids is mainly from vegetable oils including linoleic acid (LA).
LA is converted in the body to gamma-linolenic acid (GLA), and further broken down to arachidonic acid (AA).
GLA is believed to reduce inflammation and can be found as a supplement in evening primrose oil, borage oil, and black currant seed oil.
The GLA in these supplements is converted to dihomo-y-linolenic acid (DGLA) which has anti-inflammatory properties.
Nutrients that help drive the conversion of GLA to DGLA include magnesium, zinc, vitamin C, vitamin B3, and vitamin B6.
A reverse transcriptase inhibitor and ZALCITABINE analog in which a sulfur atom replaces the 3' carbon of the pentose ring.
It is used to treat HIV disease.
Washing a unit of Red Blood Cells with sterile normal saline removes about 99% of plasma proteins, electrolytes and antibodies.
Saline washed Red Blood Cells are indicated for patients with or for those who have allergic or febrile reactions to plasma components of the blood product.
This product may be used in patients with antibodies to IgA or IgE immunoglobulins or thalassemic patients.
Calponin is a calcium binding protein.
Calponin tonically inhibits the ATPase activity of myosin in smooth muscle.
Phosphorylation of calponin by a protein kinase, which is dependent upon calcium binding to calmodulin, releases the calponin's inhibition of the smooth muscle ATPase.
Cytomegalovirus is a member of the family Herpesviridae and also known as Human Herpesvirus-5 (HHV-5).
It contains a linear double-stranded DNA encased in an icosahedral capsid that is surrounded by a viral envelope.
It replicates slowly and may take weeks for the infection to become visible microscopically.
Its life cycle includes a lytic and a latent phase.
During the lytic phase the cytoskeleton of the infected cell is disrupted and becomes very large.
The enlarged cell eludes detection by natural killer (NK) cells by encoding UL16.
UL16 is a protein that binds to the ligand NDG2D which is a surface receptor on NK cells and, when blocked, prevents the CMV infected cell from apoptotic signaling to NK cells to destroy it.
In the US one in three children are infected by CMV by the age of five and over half of adults are infected by age 40.
Infection with CMV is mostly asymptomatic.
Symptoms when present include fever, sore throat, fatigue, swollen glands.
CMV can occasionally lead to mononucleosis or hepatitis.
Immunocompromised patients experience much more acute symptoms that can affect the eyes, lungs, liver, esophagus, stomach, and intestines.
For babies born with CMV, involvement with the brain, spleen, lung, liver can occur.
In addition, there may be growth problems and hearing loss which is the most common symptom in congenital CMV infection.
CMV is transmitted in urine, saliva, blood, tears, semen and breast milk by direct contact.
Normally no treatment is necessary, but for severe cases medication is available.
The term xylenes refers to a group of 3 benzene derivatives which encompasses ortho -, meta -, and para - isomers of dimethyl benzene.
The o -, m - and p - isomers specify to which carbon atoms (of the main benzene ring) the two methyl groups are attached.
Counting the carbon atoms from one of the ring carbons bonded to a methyl group, and counting towards the second ring carbon bonded to a methyl group, the o - isomer has the IUPAC name of 1,2-dimethylbenzene.
The m - isomer has the IUPAC name of 1,3-dimethylbenzene.
And p - isomer has the IUPAC name of 1,4-dimethylbenzene.
The PYGM gene (phosphorylase, glycogen, muscle) is located on chromosome 11q12-q13.2.
This gene encodes a muscle enzyme involved in glycogenolysis.
Highly similar enzymes encoded by different genes are found in liver and brain.
Mutations in this gene are associated with McArdle disease (myophosphorylase deficiency), a glycogen storage disease of muscle.
Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants.
The F13A1 and F13B genes encode for the 2 subunits of coagulation factor 13, FXIII-A and FXIII-B, which form a heterotetramer zymogen that is activated by thrombin.
Mutations in either gene can result in a bleeding disorder known as factor XIII deficiency, with more severe cases (umbilican cord bleeding at birth, CNS hemorrhage, etc.) due to mutations in both copies of the F13A1 gene, with mutations in the F13B gene and/or heterozygous genotypes resulting in more mild disease. .
Epithelium is the tissue composed of cells that lines the cavities and surfaces of structures in the human body.
Ciliated cells are simple columnar epithelial cells with cilia, hair-like microtubular projections, which move in a certain wavelike direction.
The movement of the cilia are responsible for the movement of mucus.
Ciliated cells are found in the respiratory system, including air passages (like the nose), and in the uterus and Fallopian tubes of females.
Gossypol is a dimeric sesquiterpene isolated from the seed, roots, leaves and stem of the cotton plant (Gossypium sp.).
It exists as both protein-bound and free forms.
The free form of gossypol is toxic.
In the plant, the toxic form is a natural defense against predators, causing infertility in insects.
In animals and man, daily ingestion of gossypol provokes infertility.
In men, it is used as a contraceptive and causes spermatogenesis arrest at relatively low doses.
Veterinary Medicine: Cottonseed meal, a by-product of cotton, is used for animal feeding because it is rich in oil and proteins.
Due to the toxicity of gossypol, cottonseed use is limited in animal feed.
Food and animal agricultural industries must manage cottonseed meal levels to avoid toxicity.
High concentrations of free gossypol most commonly cause impairment of male and female reproduction.
Toxicity can also lead to respiratory distress, impaired body weight gain, anorexia, apathy, and even death after several days.
Amprenavir (Agenerase, GlaxoSmithKline) is a protease inhibitor used to treat HIV infection.
Production of amprenavir was discontinued by the manufacturer December 31, 2004; a prodrug version (fosamprenavir) is available.
Soybean is the world's most important legume.
Proteins of Soybeans are widely used in animal and human nutrition.
Soybean may commonly induce symptoms of food allergy in sensitised individuals.
Dust from Soybean storage or transport has been reported to result in exacerbation of asthma, and dust from Soybean flour may precipitate asthma in bakers.
There are 2 main types of Soy food-allergenic reactions.
IgE-mediated reactions may result in respiratory, cutaneous, and gastrointestinal symptoms, and anaphylaxis.
Delayed non-IgE-mediated reactions, including Soy-induced enterocolitis, may be experienced.
Delafloxacin (DLX), trade name Baxdela, is a fluoroquinolone antibacterial used to treat acute bacterial skin and skin structure infections (ABSSSIs), which include cellulitis and erysipelas, wound infections and major skin abscesses.
DLX is active against a broad spectrum of microorganisms, including those resistant to other fluoroquinolones such as MRSA (methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus), a major cause of hospital-acquired skin infections.
Oxycodone is a potent and addictive opioid analgesic medication synthesized from thebaine.
Its name is derived from codeine, which has a very similar chemical structure.
It is effective orally and is marketed in combination with acetylsalicylic acid (Percodan, Endodan, Roxiprin) or paracetamol (Percocet, Endocet, Roxicet, Tylox) for the relief of pain.
More recently, ibuprofen has been added to oxycodone (Combunox).
Long term users may develop a tolerance or resistance to the drug.
Abusers crush the tablets and injest the powder orally, intranasally, or via intravenous, intramuscular or subcutaneous injections.
Interleukin-10 (IL-10 or IL10), also known as human cytokine synthesis inhibitory factor (CSIF), is an anti-inflammatory cytokine.
In humans IL-10 is encoded by the IL10 gene.
This cytokine is produced primarily by monocytes and to a lesser extent by lymphocytes.
This cytokine has pleiotropic effects in immunoregulation and inflammation.
It down-regulates the expression of Th1 cytokines, MHC class II antigens, and costimulatory molecules on macrophages.
It also enhances B cell survival, proliferation, and antibody production.
This cytokine can block NF-κB activity, and is involved in the regulation of the JAK-STAT signaling pathway.
The NR0B1 gene (nuclear receptor subfamily 0, group B, member 1) is located on chromosome Xp21.3.
This gene encodes a protein that contains a DNA-binding domain.
The encoded protein acts as a dominant-negative regulator of transcription which is mediated by the retinoic acid receptor.
This protein also functions as an anti-testis gene by acting antagonistically to Sry.
Mutations in this gene result in both X-linked congenital adrenal hypoplasia and hypogonadotropic hypogonadism.
Trichophyton mentagrophytes is a dermatophyte fungus that requires keratin for growth and can cause superficial infections of the skin, hair and nails.
Of Eurasian temperate zone origin, Cocksfoot was introduced to the eastern United States in 1760.
It is now found throughout most of U.S., except for desert or arctic regions, and also grows in the temperate regions of Africa (Kenya, Tanzania, Rhodesia, S. Africa), Australia (NSW, Victoria, and other areas of southern Australia) and South America (Brazil, Colombia, Venezuela, Argentina).
It is widespread in Europe and temperate Asian regions such as Japan, where it is a major pollen source.
It is one of the commonest grasses, and is widely used for forage and hay.
It is one of the best grasses for cultivating in shady areas.
Cocksfoot grass pollen is a very common allergen inducing asthma, allergic rhinitis and allergic conjunctivitis.
The degree of mitotic activity in breast carcinoma is one component of the Nottingham histologic grade (NHG), which is a prognostic indicator for patients with breast carcinoma.
The two other components of the NHG are tubule formation and nuclear pleomorphism.
Mitotic activity is assessed as the number of mitoses per 10 high power fields (HPF), with increasing mitotic activity being an indicator of more aggressive cancer.
The specific scores assigned to the number of mitoses depends on the size of the HPF.
For example, for a HPF size of 0.274 mm^2, less than 10 mitoses per 10 HPF gets a score of 1, 10-19 gets a score of 2, and greater than or equal to 20 gets a score of 3.
When larger or smaller HPFs are used, the cutoffs for the number of mitoses corresponding to a specific score are adjusted according to published guidelines.
The Reoviridae (Respiratory Enteritic Orphan virus) are a family of viruses that includes some viruses that affect the gastrointestinal system (such as Rotavirus), and some that cause respiratory infections.
The genetic material of viruses in this family is double-stranded RNA.
The name Reoviridae is derived from respiratory enteric orphan viruses.
The term orphan virus means a virus that is not associated with any known disease.
Even though Reoviridae have been identified with various diseases, the original name is still used.
Reovirus infection occurs often in humans, but most cases are mild or subclinical.
The virus can be readily detected in faeces, and many also be recovered from pharyngeal or nasal secretions, urine, cerebrospinal fluid, and blood.
Despite the ease of finding Reovirus in clinical specimens, their role in human disease or treatment is still uncertain.
Reoviruses have an inner and outer layer to their capsids--a double capsid.
The carrot (Daucus carota) is a root vegetable, usually orange or white in color with a woody texture.
The edible part of a carrot is a taproot.
It is a biennial plant which grows a rosette of leaves in the spring and summer while building up the stout taproot, which stores large amounts of sugars for the plant to flower in the second year.
The flowering stem grows to about 1 m tall, with umbels of white flowers.
Two species of fish, the common and the yellow perch (Perca fluviatilis and P.flavescens, sometimes considered as single species, P. fluviatilis) of the family Percidae (order Perciformes).
The name also is widely, and sometimes confusingly, applied to a variety of other fishes.
The flour mite, Acarus siro, is a pest of stored grains
Annual cereal grass of the family Poaceae and its edible starchy grain, rice, a staple food of roughly one-half of the world's population.
Razupenem is a carbapenem antibiotic currently being tested as having a broad spectrum of activity including strains resistant to other carbapenems.
ADB-PINACA pentanoic acid is a metabolite of ABD-PINACA and 5F-ADB-PINACA.
Synthetic cannabinoids interact with the same brain receptors as THC (the active drug present in marijuana) and have been demonstrated to produce similar effects.
The drug is typically sprayed on botanical material and smoked, although it can be ingested in liquid or powder form.
Products containing this drug are sold under a wide variety of names including (but not limited to) Spice, Potpourri, Smoke, K2, Zombie, Kush, and Cloud 10.
Reticulocytes are immature red blood cells (RBC), comprising about 1% of the red cells in the human body.
They develop and mature in the bone marrow and then circulate for about a day in the blood before developing into mature RBC.
Like mature RBC, reticulocytes do not have a nucleus.
They are called reticulocytes because of a reticular (mesh-like) network of ribosomal RNA that is visible under a microscope.
Reticulocytes appear slightly bluer than other RBC when stained with Romanowsky stain.
Reticulocytes are also slightly larger and thus can be identified as a high mean corpuscular volume during a full blood count done by machine.
1,2-Dibromo-3-chloropropane, (dibromochloropropane) better known as DBCP, is the active ingredient in the nematicide Nemagon, also known as Fumazone.
It is a soil fumigant formerly used in American agriculture.
In mammals it causes male sterility at high levels of exposure.
Heptachlor epoxide is an organochlorine that is produced when heptachlor is oxidized.
The oxidation process is carried out by many plants and animals, including humans, when they are exposed to heptachlor.
Heptachlor is easily oxidized to heptachlor epoxide when it is exposed to air.
Heptachlor was used to treat insects found in homes, buildings, and on food crops, mainly corn.
Heptachlor is toxic to humans and animals, causing irritability, salivation and dizziness when recurrently inhaled or exposed in and around the mouth.
Heptachlor production gradually ended in the 1980s, but remains in the soil and in hazardous waste sites.
Heptachlor epoxide is more prevalent in the environment than heptachlor.
Rotaviruses are non-enveloped, multilayered, icosahedral viruses composed of an outer layer, an inner layer, and a core.
After the immature, double-layered virus is assembled in the host cell cytoplasm, they bud across the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) and acquire a temporary membrane that has on its surface the ER resident viral glycoproteins NSP4, VP4 and VP7.
The virus loses its temporary membrane and the NSP4 glycoprotein as it moves toward the center of the ER cisternae.
The VP4 and VP7 proteins are pushed to the outermost membrane layer and become the mature triple-layered rotavirus.
The outer capsid glycoprotein VP7 is believed to be important for the attachment to and entry in the host cell.
After it enters the host cell, the VP7 glycoprotein is lost.
When the host cell lyses, the mature virus are released.
There are eight groups of rotavirus, A through H. Groups A, B, C, and H are associated with an acute gastroenteritis and are found in humans and animals.
Groups D, E, F, and G are found only in animals.
Rotavirus B (RVB) infect both humans and animals, and were the cause of severe diarrheal epidemics in China between 1982 and 1987.
RVB has been isolated in lambs, pigs, cattle, goats and rats.
India, Bangladesh, and Myanmar have also experienced acute outbreaks of gastroenteritis caused by infection with RVB.
The composition and adequacy of a patient's food and nutrient intake, meal and snack patterns, diets and food modifications, and their eating environment.
The ATP7B gene (ATPase, Cu++ transporting, beta polypeptide) is located on chromosome 13q14.3.
This gene is a member of the P-type cation transport ATPase family and encodes a protein with several membrane-spanning domains, an ATPase consensus sequence, a hinge domain, a phosphorylation site, and at least 2 putative copper-binding sites.
This protein functions as a monomer, exporting copper out of the cells, such as the efflux of hepatic copper into the bile.
Alternate transcriptional splice variants, encoding different isoforms with distinct cellular localizations, have been characterized.
Mutations in this gene have been associated with Wilson disease (WD).
Cyclophosphamide (the generic name for Endoxan, Cytoxan, Neosar, Procytox, Revimmune), also known as cytophosphane, is a nitrogen mustard alkylating agent, from the oxazophorines group.
An alkylating agent adds an alkyl group (CnH2n+1) to DNA.
It attaches the alkyl group to the guanine base of DNA, at the number 7 nitrogen atom of the imidazole ring.
It is used to treat various types of cancer and some autoimmune disorders.
It is a "prodrug"; it is converted in the liver to active forms that have chemotherapeutic activity.
A satellite nodule is a cluster of neoplastic cells that are less than 2cm from the primary tumor.
Veterinary medicine: Mycoplasma hyopneumoniae is among the smallest bacteria in nature and lacks a cell wall.
It is prevalent in swine herds worldwide and causes nominal distress unless present with other bacteria and viruses.
When infection with M hyoopneumoniae occurs in concert with the viruses porcine reproductive and respiratory syndrome virus (PRRSV) or porcine circovirus type 2 (PCV2), symptoms become severe and the duration of illness increases.
M hyopneumoniae causes the destruction of cilia and epithelial death by attaching to the epithelial cilia of the lower airways.
M hyopneumoniae eludes the immune system of the pig at the gene level by switching what proteins emerge on its cell surface.
Culture is not recommended to identify M hyopneumoniae due to its slow and fastidious growth.
Enzyme-linked immunosorbent assays are available, but have low negative predictive values, which may be due in part to a reduced interaction of the immune system within the airways, where M hyopneumoniae colonizes.
Nested polymerase chain reaction (PCR) uses two primers to detect M hyopneumoniae and has increased the accuracy of detecting M hyopneumoniae.
Transmission of M hyopneumoniae is by direct contact with nasal secretion or inhalation of aerosols over short distances.
There is an increased incidence of infection with M hyopneumoniae when the pigs are crowded closely together, there is poor air quality, there are fluctuations in temperature and humidity, and when other pathogens are present.
The TGFBR1 gene (transforming growth factor, beta receptor 1) is located on chromosome 9q22.
The protein encoded by this gene forms a heteromeric complex with type II TGF-beta receptors when bound to TGF-beta, transducing the TGF-beta signal from the cell surface to the cytoplasm.
The encoded protein is a serine/threonine protein kinase.
Mutations in this gene have been associated with Loeys-Dietz aortic aneurysm syndrome (LDAS).
Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
Neutrophil cytoplasmic antibodies are autoantibodies that bind to the granulocytes of neutrophils.
These antibodies were first identified in patients with Wegener's granulomatosis (WG) who also had systemic vasculitis and necrotizing crescentic glomerulonephritis.
When viewed under a fluorescent microscope, a typical cytoplasmic fluorescent pattern is visible.
These ANCA are called cytoplasmic ANCA (c-ANCA) and the antigen they target is proteinase 3 (PR3) which is part of the azurophilic granules of neutrophils.
The perinuclear ANCA (p-ANCA) targets the antigen myeloperoxidase (MPO) and is associated with idiopathic forms of systemic vasculitis and glomerulonephritis.
A third ANCA antibody is the atypical ANCA (a-ANCA).
The presence of a-ANCA has been found in patients with inflammatory bowel diseases including ulcerative colitis (UC) and Crohn's disease (CD), autoimmune-mediated liver diseases, rheumatoid arthritis RA, and systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE).
The benzodiazepines are a class of drugs with sedative, hypnotic, anxiolytic, anticonvulsant, amnestic and muscle relaxant properties.
They are often used for short-term relief of severe, disabling anxiety or insomnia.
Long-term use may lead to tolerance and dependency.
They are believed to act on the GABA receptor GABAA, the activation of which dampens higher neuronal activity.
They began to be widely prescribed for stress-related ailments in the 1960s and 1970s.
Their chemical structure is based upon diazepine and phenyl groups.
Common benzodiazepines include diazepam, oxazepam, chlorodiazepam, alprozolam, and temazepam.
The TPMT gene (thiopurine S-methyltransferase) is located on chromosome 6p22.3.
This gene encodes the enzyme that metabolizes thiopurine drugs via S-adenosyl-L-methionine as the S-methyl donor and S-adenosyl-L-homocysteine as a byproduct.
Thiopurine drugs such as 6-mercaptopurine are used as chemotherapeutic agents.
Genetic polymorphisms that affect this enzymatic activity are correlated with variations in sensitivity and toxicity to such drugs within individuals, causing thiopurine S-methyltransferase deficiency.
Related pseudogenes have been identified on chromosomes 3, 18 and X. Eight known mutations in variants TPMT*2 through *7 account for 90-95% of cases of TPMT deficiency, with four of them, all subtypes of TPMT*3, accounting for 75%.
The 8 mutations are as follows: c.238G>C (TPMT*2), c.460G>A and c.719A>G (TPMT*3A), c.460G>A (TPMT*3B), c.719A>G (TPMT*3C), intron 9/exon10 splice junction mutation (TPMT*4), c.146C>T (TPMT*5), c.539A>T (TPMT*6), c.681T>G (TPMT*7).
Oxyhemoglobin is the oxygen-loaded form of hemoglobin, the transport molecule for oxygen in the blood.
Each hemoglobin molecule is a tetramer with 4 sites that reversibly bind oxygen.
Loading occurs in the lung where the pO2 is high, and unloading occurs in tissues according to the hemoglobin saturation curve.
The fraction of hemoglobin sites loaded with an oxygen molecule is close to 100% in arterial blood and 60-80% in mixed venous blood.
Changes in absorption spectra of hemoglobin upon binding oxygen is the basis for pulse oximetry, and partly account for its bright red color compared to the purple blue of deoxyhemoglobin due to a higher absorption spectrum (940 nm vs. 660 nm wavelength for oxyhemoglobin).
The TGFBR2 gene (transforming growth factor, beta receptor II (70/80kDa)) is located on chromosome 3p22.
This gene encodes a member of the Ser/Thr protein kinase family and the TGFB receptor subfamily.
The encoded protein is a transmembrane protein that has a protein kinase domain, forms a heterodimeric complex with another receptor protein, and binds TGF-beta.
This receptor/ligand complex phosphorylates proteins, which then enter the nucleus and regulate the transcription of a subset of genes related to cell proliferation.
Mutations in this gene have been associated with Marfan Syndrome, Loeys-Deitz Aortic Aneurysm Syndrome, and the development of various types of tumors.
Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been characterized.
Dinitrophenols are chemical compounds which are nitro derivatives of phenol.
There are six isomers of dinitrophenol: 2,3-Dinitrophenol, 2,4-Dinitrophenol, 2,5-Dinitrophenol, 2,6-Dinitrophenol, 3,4-Dinitrophenol, 3,5-Dinitrophenol Dinitrophenols also form the core structure of some herbicides, which are collectively referred to as dinotrophenol herbicides, including: Dinofenate, Dinoprop, Dinosam, Dinoseb, Dinoterb, DNOC, Etinofen, Medinoterb
Primidone is an anticonvulsant of the pyrimidinedione class, the active metabolites of which, phenobarbital (major) and phenylethylmalonamide (PEMA) (minor), are also anticonvulsants.
It is used mainly to treat complex partial, simple partial, generalized tonic-clonic seizures, myoclonic, and akinetic seizures and has been a valuable alternative to propranolol in the treatment of essential tremor.
Unlike other anticonvulsants such as carbamazepine and valproic acid, primidone is rarely used in the treatment of bipolar disorder or any other psychiatric problem.
It is also not widely used in treatment of neuropathic pain, trigeminal neuralgia, migraine.
Primidone has been occasionally used to treat long QT syndrome, cerebral palsy, and athetosis.
Screening mammography is used to look for breast changes in women without signs of breast cancer.
Typically, screening mammography involves two views (craniocaudal and mediolateral oblique views) of each breast.
The Little Black Ant (Monomorium minimum) is a species of ant.
Members of the species are tiny and shiny black in color.
These ants are pests that are usually found outdoors or in wood inside a home that causes it to decay.
The prototypical uricosuric agent.
It inhibits the renal excretion of organic anions and reduces tubular reabsorption of urate.
Probenecid has also been used to treat patients with renal impairment, and, because it reduces the renal tubular excretion of other drugs, has been used as an adjunct to antibacterial therapy.
Dinoseb is an herbicide in the dinitrophenol family.
The IUPAC name is 2-sec-butyl-4,6-dinitrophenol and its molecular formula is C10H12N2O5.
Metanephrines = (metanephrine+ normetanepharine)
The first is the O methylated metobolyte of eppineprhine and the latter the O-methylatead metabolyte of noreppinephrine.
They can be measured as a unit but more commoly today are measured seperately and called fractionated metanephrines and total metanprhines is the sum of the two.
Both of these can be conjugated with sulfate and the conjugated form is mostly produced in the GI tract and is the predominant form in plasma.
The Olive is the fruit of the Olive tree(Olea europaea) and is a major component of the agriculture and gastronomy along the Mediterranean both in Europe and North Africa, as well as in the Middle East.
A genus of tick-borne protozoa parasitic in the lymphocytes, erythrocytes, and endothelial cells of mammals.
Its organisms multiply asexually and then invade erythrocytes, where they undergo no further reproduction until ingested by a transmitting tick.
Stearic acid (first syllable pronounced either steer or stair) or 18:0 is a saturated fatty acid with the formal IUPAC name octadecanoic acid.
It is a waxy solid, and its chemical formula is C18H36O2, or CH3(CH2)16COOH.
The salts and esters of stearic acid are called stearates.
The ITGA2B gene (integrin, alpha 2b (platelet glycoprotein IIb of IIb/IIIa complex, antigen CD41)) is located on chromosome 17q21.32.
ITGA2B encodes integrin alpha chain 2b.
Integrins are heterodimeric integral membrane proteins composed of an alpha chain and a beta chain.
Alpha chain 2b undergoes post-translational cleavage to yield disulfide-linked light and heavy chains that join with beta 3 to form a fibronectin receptor expressed in platelets that plays a crucial role in coagulation.
Mutations that interfere with this role result in thrombasthenia.
In addition to adhesion, integrins are known to participate in cell-surface mediated signalling.
HLA-B27 is an allele of the human HLA-B locus that is present in 1% of Asians, 3-4% of African-Americans, and 6-8% of Caucasians.
HLA-B27 bears a strong association with ankylosing spondylitits (Marie-Strumpell disease), more than 90% of patients express this antigen.
An HLA-B27 positive individual with consistent clinical and radiographic findings has an 100 fold greater risk of developing ankylosing spondylitis than a negative individual.
The antigen is less strongly associated with Reiter's syndrome, psoriatic arthritis and juvenile rheumatoid arthritis.
It has also been linked with congenital deficiency of complement components C2 and C4, adrenal hyperplasia, and inflammatory bowel disease.
The "Muscular Dystrophy Action Plan" is a communication tool medical providers use to inform school staff of a patient's Muscular Dystrophy diagnosis and treatment protocol.
School staff uses this information to guide and authorize their treatment of the child's Muscular Dystrophy while at school.
Immune complexes result from the interactions between antibodies, antigens, and their corresponding receptors.
They can form after infections, vaccines, and drug treatments.
Immune complexes can trigger autoimmune disorders if accumulated in various organs in the body leading to cellular dammage and immune complex disease.
Loa loa filaria is a microscopic worm which causes the disease loa loa filariasis in humans.
It is found in the rainforests of central Africa.
Humans contract this disease through the bite of a horse fly.
The disease can cause red ichy swellings below the skin which is known as Calabar swellings.
The disease can be treated with the drug diethylcarbamazine (DEC).
Triazolam (marketed under brand names Halcion ®, Novodorm ®, Songar ®) is a drug which is a benzodiazepine derivative.
It possesses pharmacological properties similar to other benzodiazepines, but it is generally only used as a sedative.
Specific airway resistance (sRaw) reflects airway resistance (Raw) that has been adjusted for lung volume.
It is measured by plethysmography during normal breathing (i.e., tidal breathing), does not require special maneuvers, and is independent of height and sex, so it is commonly used in pediatrics and can be used for children as young as 2.
The relationship between sRaw and Raw is: sRaw = Raw * TGV, where TGV is thoracic gas volume.
There are different methods used for calculating sRaw from the data gathered during plethysmography, including: 1. sRtot (total specific resistance), which uses the flow measurements at the maximum change in pressure 2. sRaw Vmax, which uses the the measurements at the maximum flow 3. sRaw0.5, which uses the measurements where the flow reaches 0.5 L/s Specifying the method used to calculate sRaw is important for interpreting the results.
Found on Memory helperT-cells, activated T-cells, Granulocytes and Monocytes.
Associated with T-cell lymphomas
ECP may reflect the rate of activation of circulating eosinophils
Spermine is found in all eukaryotic cells in humans and other organisms.
It is formed from the amino acid ornithine and is involved in cellular metabolism.
It has been found to have antioxidant and anti-inflammatory properties.
A nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory agent with analgesic properties used in the therapy of rheumatism and arthritis.
Erythrocyte chromasia (chromia) refers to the color and pattern of color in a red blood cell.
A normochromic erythrocyte shows the expected red-orange cytoplasm due to hemoglobin and a small circle of central pallor due to the concave cell shape.
Hypochromia (or hypochromasia) is a result of decreased hemoglobin, and appears as increasing size in the zone of central pallor, often graded as 0, 1+, 2+, 3+, 4+.
Polychromasia occurs because of presence of young erythrocytes (often a response to anemia).
Under wright stain, polychromatic erythrocytes are diffusely blue due to residual RNA, and often slightly larger than normal erythrocytes.
Another term, hyperchromia, could be applied to RBC's with decreased central pallor, but these cells are usually reported in morphological terms (as spherocytes).
All Rice grown in the United States and most of that cultivated in other countries is of the species Oryza sativa L. Some 20 to 25 species of Oryza are known.
Rice may uncommonly induce symptoms of food allergy, asthma, rhinitis, eczema and urticaria in sensitised individuals.
Symptoms reported in Rice-allergic individuals include abdominal cramping and similar pain, nausea, vomiting, rhinitis, rhinoconjunctivitis, dyspnoea, asthma, contact urticaria, atopic dermatitis, dermatitis, angioedema and anaphylaxis.
Asp f 1 is a major allergen and is produced by the mycelia of A. fumigatus.
Germination of spores and growth of the fungus appear to be essential for the production of this allergen.
More than 80% of patients with allergic bronchopulmonary aspergillosis (ABPA) are sensitised to this allergen.
It is also raised in patients with cystic fibrosis with the complication of ABPA.
It is not present in spores, and can be used as a specific marker for the detection of germination of this fungus.
The Colorado Pinyon, Two-needle Pinyon, or Piñon Pine, (Pinus edulis ), is a pine in the pinyon pine group whose ancestor was a member of the Madro-Tertiary Flora (a group of drought resistant trees) and is native to the United States.
Granulocyte-monocyte colony-stimulating factor (GM-CSF) is an important cytokine that impacts the activation pathways of monocytes, macrophages, dendritic cells and tumor-infiltrating lymphocytes.
GM-CSF has many beneficial properties including to regulate differentiated white blood cell function, to stimulate macrophages to fight infection and tumors, and to assist the healing and repair of fibroblasts and epidermal cells.
In addition, GM-CSF regulates the growth and function of dendritic cells that are key to inducing a primary T cell immune response.
GM-CSF is used to treat neutropenia secondary to cytotoxic chemotherapy and bone marrow and hemopoietic stem cell transplantation.
Future uses may include enhancing antibody responses to antimicrobial vaccines, assisting in fighting intracellular microorganisms, speeding up wound healing, and providing protective immunity against tumors.
Apixaban (INN, trade name Eliquis) is an anticoagulant for the prevention of venous thromboembolism and venous thromboembolic events.
It is a direct factor Xa inhibitor.
Apixaban has been available in Europe since May 2012 and was approved for preventing venous thromboembolism after elective hip or knee replacement.
The Akabane virus is an insect-transmitted virus that causes congenital abnormalities of the central nervous systems in ruminants.
Chloramine (monochloramine) is an inorganic compound with the formula NH2Cl.
It is a colorless liquid at room temperature, but it is usually handled as a dilute solution where it is used as a disinfectant.
The term chloramine also refers to a family of organic compounds with the formulas R2NCl and RNCl2 (R is an organic group).
Dichloramine, NHCl2, and nitrogen trichloride, NCl3, are also well known.
Toxic shock syndrome (TSS) is associated with strains of Staphylococcus aureus that produce TSS toxin-1 (TSST-1) and/or staphylococcal enterotoxin B (SEB) (or Staph enterotoxin C).
TSST-1 is associated with approximately 65% of TSS cases- (most of the menstruation associated cases), whereas SEB is associated with approximately 20% of cases.
Individuals lacking antibodies to TSST-1 or to SEB (approximately 10% and 20% of adults, respectively) are presumed to be at highest risk of TSS.
(Information is from Focus Diagnostics).
Citrullinated peptide (CCP) is a naturally occurring protein that is produced during the metabolism of ornithine to arginine.
CCP proteins are found in synovial tissue of patients with rheumatoid arthritis (RA).
High levels of antibodies to CCP have a strong association with RA and are predictive of an aggressive and destructive disease outcome.
CCP antibody tests can help diagnose RA when the rheumatoid factor (RF) is negative or below 50 IU/mL.(Pagana, Kathleen Deska, and Timothy James Pagana.
Mosby's Manual of Diagnostic and Laboratory Tests.
IgA to CCP is more elevated in patients with RA than levels found in healthy individuals or those with other rheumatic diseases.
This test is used to screen for fetal Smith-Lemli-Opitz Syndrome (SLOS) and Steroid Sulfatase Deficiency (STSD).
It is a follow-up test designed to evaluate pregnancies with a low maternal serum unconjugated estriol (uE3) level detected during prenatal screening for Down syndrome and neural tube defects.
The maternal serum uE3 level is <0.3 MoM (multiples of the median) in about 60% of SLOS cases and less than or equal to 0.1 MoM in STSD cases.
Adalimumab is a human monoclonal antibody that binds tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNFα).
TNFα is a cell signaling protein that, when present in excess, may lead to the development of inflammatory immune diseases including Crohn's disease, rheumatoid arthritis, psoriatic arthritis and inflammatory bowel disease.
Adalimumab inactivates TNFα by binding to the TNFα receptor.
Treatment with adalimumab does not necessitate laboratory monitoring though association with increased transamines and pancytopenia may argue for intermittant blood cell counts and liver function tests.
Adalimumab has been associated with serious infections including the reactivation of tuberculosis and deep fungal infections as well as other rare side effects, including lymphoma, heart failure and demyelinating disease.
2-Methoxyethanol, or methyl cellosolve, is an organic compound that is used mainly as a solvent.
It is a clear, colorless liquid with an ether-like odor.
It is in a class of solvents known as glycol ethers which are notable for their ability to dissolve a variety of different types of chemical compounds and for their miscibility with water and other solvents.
It can be formed by the nucleophilic attack of methanol on protonated oxirane followed by proton transfer.
2-Methoxyethanol is used as a solvent for many different purposes such as varnishes, dyes, and resins.
It is also used as an additive in airplane deicing solutions.
2-Methoxyethanol is toxic to the bone marrow and testicles.
Workers exposed to high levels are at risk for granulocytopenia, macrocytic anemia, oligospermia, and azoospermia.
Methylmalonylcarnitine is a primary marker for Succinyl-CoA ligase deficiency.
Secondary marker for Methylmalonic acidemia (mut), Methylmalonic acidemia (Cbl A, B), Methylmalonic aciduria and homocystinuria.
Argatroban is an anticoagulant that is a small molecule direct thrombin inhibitor.
In 2000, argatroban was licensed by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for prophylaxis or treatment of thrombosis in patients with heparin-induced thrombocytopenia (HIT).
In 2002, it was approved for use during percutaneous coronary interventions in patients who have HIT or are at risk for developing it.
Argatroban is given intravenously.
Argatroban is metabolized in the liver and has a half life of about 50 minutes.
It is monitored by PTT.
Because of its hepatic metabolism, it may be used in patients with renal dysfunction.
(This is in contrast to lepirudin, a direct thrombin inhibitor that is primarily renally cleared).
Elevation of one or more organic acids is diagnostic for an organic aciduria.
Sebacic acid is a bi-carboxylic acid and is a fatty acid metabolite.
Elevated levels occur with fatty oxidation defects including Beta-oxidation defects (MAD, MCAD, SCAD, VLCAD, SCHAD, LCHAD/TFP), HMG-CoA lyase deficiency, systemic carnitine deficiency, succinic semialdehyde DH deficiency, CPT II deficiency, peroxisomal diseases, glycogen storage disorders I & II, lactic acidosis, and fructose intolerance.
(Information from: Kumps A, Duez P, Mardens Y. Metabolic, Nutritional, Iatrogenic, and Artifactual Sources of Urinary Organic Acids: A Comprehensive Table.
The d-isomer of the codeine analog of LEVORPHANOL.
Dextromethorphan shows high affinity binding to several regions of the brain, including the medullary cough center.
This compound is an NMDA receptor antagonist (RECEPTORS, N-METHYL-D-ASPARTATE) and acts as a non-competitive channel blocker.
It is one of the widely used ANTITUSSIVES, and is also used to study the involvement of glutamate receptors in neurotoxicity.
Many drugs are metabolized by members of the cytochrome P450 CYP3A subfamily, which present considerable variation in gene expression.
CYP3A4, CYP3A5, CYP3A7 and CYP3A43 genes are included in the 231-kb CYP3A locus.
Several single nucleaotide polymorphisms (SNPs) with the CYP3A5 are associated with absence of CYP3A5 expression in the liver.
The CYP3A5*1 allele (A6986) appears to be the main allele associated with CYP3A5 expression and activity.
Individuals with a CYP3A5*1 allele may show more rapid than average metabolism of CYP3A substrates.
Carriers of the mutation CYP3A5*3 (A6986G) appear not to express the enzyme due to the creation of a cryptic splice site.
Since CYP3A5 expression in the liver is likely to be a useful predictor of metabolism of a variety of drugs, PCR-based assays are performed to identify a patient's genotype for the CYP3A5*1 and CYP3A5*3 alleles.
A creeping annual plant species of the CUCURBITACEAE family.
It has a rough succulent, trailing stem and hairy leaves with three to five pointed lobes.
The CLCN5 gene (chloride channel, voltage-sensitive 5) is located on chromosome Xp11.23-p11.22.
This gene encodes a member of the ClC family of chloride ion channels and ion transporters.
The encoded protein is primarily localized to endosomal membranes and may function to facilitate albumin uptake by the renal proximal tubule.
Mutations in this gene have been found in Dent disease and renal tubular disorders complicated by nephrolithiasis.
Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been found for this gene.
Imatinib is a drug used to treat certain types of cancer.
It is currently marketed by Novartis as Gleevec (USA) or Glivec (Europe/Australia) as its mesylate salt, imatinib mesilate (INN) (formerly called STI-571).
It is used in treating chronic myelogenous leukemia (CML), gastrointestinal stromal tumors (GISTs) and other cancers.
It is the first member of a new class of agents that act by specifically inhibiting a certain enzyme that is characteristic of a particular cancer cell, rather than non-specifically inhibiting and killing all rapidly dividing cells.
Methasterone is an oral anabolic steroid that was never marketed through legitimate channels for medicinal purposes.
It was brought to market, instead, in a clandestine fashion as a "designer steroid.
Methasterone is also referred to as methasteron, Superdrol, and methyldrostanolone.
ROS1, ROS proto-oncogene 1 is highly-expressed in a variety of tumor cell lines, belongs to the sevenless subfamily of tyrosine kinase insulin receptor genes.
The protein encoded by this gene is a type I integral membrane protein with tyrosine kinase activity.
The protein may function as a growth or differentiation factor receptor.
Chromosomal translocation t(8;14)(q24;q32) invovling MYC and IGH genes is found in both in B-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) and in non-Hodgkin lymphomas (NHL), especially in the Burkitt lymphoma.
This translocaiton is a variant of translocations t(2;8)(p12;q24) IGK/MYC and t(8;22)(q24;q11) IGL/MYC, all of which share a breakpoint in 8q24 (C-MYC locus) and present the same clinical significance.
A parasitic hemoflagellate of the subgenus Leishmania leishmania that infects man and animals including rodents.
The Leishmania mexicana complex causes both cutaneous (LEISHMANIASIS, CUTANEOUS) and diffuse cutaneous leishmaniasis (LEISHMANIASIS, DIFFUSE CUTANEOUS) and includes the subspecies amazonensis, garnhami, mexicana, pifanoi, and venezuelensis.
L. m. mexicana causes chiclero ulcer, a form of cutaneous leishmaniasis (LEISHMANIASIS, CUTANEOUS) in the New World.
The sandfly, Lutzomyia, appears to be the vector.
Testing for creatinine, pH, specific gravity, oxidants and nitrate can determine whether a urine specimen for drug testing has been adulterated.
The name Millet is used to describe seeds from several taxonomically divergent species of grass.
They are grown mostly in marginal areas and under agricultural conditions in which major cereals fail to give sustainable yields.
Foxtail millet and the other Millets are not closely related to Wheat.
Foxtail millet is used mainly in animal fodder and for bird seed.
Hypersensitivity to cereals may occur via inhalation or ingestion, but reported allergy to Foxtail millet is rare.
Aspartic acid (Asp), also known as aspartate, the name of its anion, is one of the 20 natural proteinogenic amino acids which are the building blocks of proteins.
As with each of the 20 natural amino acids, there are two abbreviations commonly used to designate aspartic acid: Asp (three letter) and D (one letter).
The abbreviations signifying a choice of either aspartic acid or asparagine are Asx (three-letter) and B
As its name indicates, aspartic acid is the carboxylic acid analog of asparagine.
It is non-essential in mammals, and might serve as an excitatory neurotransmitter in the brain.
It is also a metabolite in the urea cycle, and participates in gluconeogenesis.
As a neurotransmitter, aspartic acid may provide resistance to fatigue and thus lead to endurance, although the evidence to support this idea is not strong.
Cephaeline is an alkaloid chemical that induces vomiting by stimulating the stomach lining.
It is found in commercial products such as syrup of ipecac.
Chemicallly, it is closely related to emetine.
GM3 is a ganglioside found both within and outside the central nervous system.
Anti-GM3 autoantibodies have been associated with Guillain-Barre syndrome, acute and isolated bulbar palsy, chronic ataxic neuropathy, chronic inflammatory demyelinating polyradiculoneuropathy and type 2 diabetes.
Herpes simplex virus 1 and 2 (HSV-1 and HSV-2) are two species of the herpes virus family, Herpesviridae, which cause infections in humans.
Eight members of herpes virus family infect humans and cause a variety of illnesses including cold sores, chickenpox or varicella, shingles or herpes zoster (VZV), cytomegalovirus (CMV).
Some herpes viruses have been implicated in certain cancers and in the inflammation of the brain (encephalitis).
All viruses in the herpes family produce life-long infections.
They are also called Human Herpes Virus 1 and 2 (HHV-1 and HHV-2) and are neurotropic and neuroinvasive viruses; they enter and hide in the human nervous system, accounting for their durability in the human body.
HSV-1 is commonly associated with herpes outbreaks of the face known as cold sores or fever blisters, whereas HSV-2 is more often associated with genital herpes.
Avian infectious bronchitis virus is a virus that infects poultry.
It and its associated disease, avian infectious bronchitis, are usually abbreviated to IBV, which stands for Infectious bronchitis virus.
Associated with severe cartilage degradation & increased risk for continued tissue destruction.
A medication administration flowsheet, commonly known as a medication administration record (MAR) or drug chart, is a summary of all of the medications administered to a patient over a certain period of time, such as during the course of a hospital admission or periodic home nursing visits.
The flowsheet typically includes information about the patient (name, date of birth, medical record number, gender, allergies, diagnosis, special instructions, etc.), the prescribing doctor, and for each medication, details about the prescription as well as the administration.
Prescription data may include drug name, drug form (e.g., tablet, injection), dose, route, frequency, and scheduled time of administration; administration data include the actual time of administration, the dose given, the site (for example, G-tube, IV left hand, or right deltoid), or other relevant information such as a missed dose or emesis post-administration.
MARs may serve as a legal record of the drugs administered to a patient by a health care professional.
In enzymology, a beta-ureidopropionase is an enzyme that catalyzes the chemical reaction N-carbamoyl-beta-alanine + H2O to beta-alanine + CO2 + NH3.
Thus, the two substrates of this enzyme are N-carbamoyl-beta-alanine and H2O, whereas its 3 products are beta-alanine, CO2, and NH3.
Human parvovirus B19 is a small, non-enveloped single-stranded DNA virus belonging to the genus Erythrovirus in the Parvoviridae family.
Human erythroviruses have three genotypes: genotype 1 (B19 strains), genotype 2 (A6 strains) and genotype 3 (V9/D91.1 strains)
The clinical manifestations of Parovirus B19 infection can vary significantly and range from asymptomatic or minor illness in children, including erythema infectiosium (fifth disease), to varying degrees of arthropathy in adults, to severe disease, including transient aplastic anemia in individuals with hematological disorders and severe fetal anemia which can lead to hydrops fetalis and fetal death.
Although primarily transmitted by the respiratory route, there are many reports in the literature of transmission through plasma products, especially coagulation factors, due to: 1) the size of plasma pools; 2) the incidence of acute, imperceptible infections; 3) high levels of virus in a viremic donation (up to 1012 IU/mL); and 4) resistance to commonly used viral inactivation/removal procedures.
Allergy test for allergens with House Dust extracted by acetone precipitation.
The susceptibility of CAPILLARIES, under conditions of increased stress, to leakage.
Some intestinal bacteria produce deuteroporphyrin which contribute significantly to total fecal porphyrin levels.
The Risk of Ovarian Malignancy Algorithm (ROMA) is a qualitative serum test that combines the results of human epididymis protein 4 (HE4) by EIA, testing for cancer Ag 125 and the patient's menopausal status into a numerical score.
The ROMA score is intended to aid in assessing whether a premenopausal or postmenopausal woman who presents with an ovarian adnexal mass is at a low or high likelihood of finding malignancy at surgery.
ROMA is indicated for women who meet the following criteria: over age 18; ovarian adnexal mass present for which surgery is planned, and not yet referred to an oncologist.
The ROMA score must be interpreted in conjunction with an independent clinical and radiological assessment.
The OXA-48 gene encodes one of the three primary classes of beta-lactamase produced by Enterobacteriaceae.
OXA-48 is mainly harbored in Klebsiella pneumoniae and occurs mainly in North Africa and Turkey.
It has been identified in both nosocomial and community-acquired infections.
OXA-48 is a member of the OXA group of class D beta-lactamases which includes six subgroups that are able to hydrolyze carbapenem in different degrees and of which OXA-48 is a member.
Carbapenems are the most effective treatment against bacteria that produce ESBLs.
Diazepam is a benzodiazepine used for anxiety treatment, status epilepticus and acute alcohol withdrawal.
Diazepam is a weak inhibitor of CYP2C19 and CYP3A4.
Information from Tietz Clinical Guide to Laboratory Tests, 4th edition, AHB Wu, 2006.
Thyroid peroxidase is an enzyime that is required in order for iodine to be added to the protein thyroglobulin, a precursor to the generation of thyroid hormones which are important in the physical growth, brain development and metabolism of the body.
If thyroid peroxidase is not produced or blocked by antibodies, hypothyroidism occurs.
Symptoms of hypothyroidism include fatigue, weight gain, muscle weakness, increased cholesterol levels, depression and impaired memory.
Candida tropicalis is a significant species of Candida with regard to its epidemiology and virulence.
It produces a number of virulence factors including biofilm, adhesion to buccal epithelial and endothelial cells, the secretion of lytic enzymes, bud-to-hyphae transition, and phenotypic switching.
In Asia and Latin America, C tropicalis is the second or third most common species of Candida to cause systemic disease.
It is able to survive in high salt concentrations, that is significant for fungal persistence in saline environments.
C tropicalis is resistant to several antifungal drugs currently in use including the azole derivatives, amphotericin B, and the echinocandins.
It exists as a true hyphae and diploid yeast that cannot be distinguished from other Candida species on Sabouraud Dextrose Agar (SDA).
It is capable of fermenting galactose, sucrose, maltose, and trehalose.
Phenyltoloxamine is an antihistamine with sedative and analgesic effects.
It is a member of the ethanolamine class of antihistaminergic agents and an anticholinergic.
Lymphoblasts are immature cells which typically differentiate to form mature lymphocytes.
Normally lymphoblasts are found in the bone marrow, but in acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL), lymphoblasts proliferate uncontrollably and are found in large numbers in the peripheral blood.
Although commonly lymphoblast refers to a precursor cell in the maturation of leukocytes, the usage of this term is sometimes inconsistent.
The Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia Research Consortium defines a lymphoblast as "A lymphocyte that has become larger after being stimulated by an antigen.
Lymphoblasts look like immature lymphocytes, and were once thought to be precursor cells.
Commonly, when speaking about leukemia, "blast" is used as an abbreviation for lymphoblasts.
The NEB gene (nebulin) is located on chromosome 2q22.
This gene encodes nebulin, a giant protein component of the cytoskeletal matrix that coexists with the thick and thin filaments within the sarcomeres of skeletal muscle.
In most vertebrates, nebulin accounts for 3 to 4% of the total myofibrillar protein.
The encoded protein contains approximately 30-amino acid long modules that can be classified into 7 types and other repeated modules.
Protein isoform sizes vary from 600 to 800 kD due to alternative splicing that is tissue-, species-,and developmental stage-specific.
Of the 183 exons in the nebulin gene, at least 43 are alternatively spliced, although exons 143 and 144 are not found in the same transcript.
Of the several thousand transcript variants predicted for nebulin, the RefSeq Project has decided to create three representative RefSeq records.
Mutations in this gene are associated with recessive nemaline myopathy.
RNA polymerase III (also called Pol III) transcribes DNA to synthesize ribosomal 5S rRNA, tRNA and other small RNAs, such as 5S rRNA and tRNAs.
Forms the polymerase active center together with the second largest subunit.
The genes transcribed by RNA Pol III fall in the category of "housekeeping" genes whose expression is required in all cell types and most environmental conditions.
Therefore the regulation of Pol III transcription is primarily tied to the regulation cell growth and the cell cycle, thus requiring fewer regulatory proteins than RNA polymerase II.
Transfusion band number is unique to Blood Bank; not attached to hospital ID
Endrin is a white, solid, nearly odorless chemical that has been used to eradicate insects, rodents, and birds.
It has not been available for sale or use or allowed to be manufactured in the United States since 1986.
Endrin can be found in low levels in ground and surface water where it is mostly bound to the bottom sediment.
It does bioaccumulate in the tissues of aquatic wildlife.
Endrin is detectable in soil after application for as long as 10 years.
Endrin is toxic if ingested, inhaled, or absorbed by the skin.
If burned, endrin can produce toxic hydrogen chloride and phosgene.
Symptoms of endrin poisoning include epileptiform convulsions, stupor, headache, dizziness, abdominal discomfort, nausea, vomiting, insomnia, aggressiveness, confusion, drowsiness, lassitude, and anorexia.
Endrin is not classified as a human carcinogen.
Retinol binding proteins (RBPs) are a family of carrier proteins that bind retinol.
The term "retinol binding protein" (singular) in the clinical literature commonly refers to the circulating form that transports retinol from the liver to peripheral tissues.
Because RBP4 is extensively reabsorbed by the kidney tubules, very little normally appears in excreted urine.
An increase in the urinary excretion of retinol binding protein indicates impaired proximal tubular function.
This can be caused by renal tubulointerstitial nephritis, tubular toxicity from heavy metal or nephrotoxic drug exposure, glomerulonephropathies and renal vasculopathies .
A propionic acid nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug anti-inflammatory analgesic and antipyretic.
It is used in the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis and osteoarthritis.
Visual field testing is a measurement of areas of vision seen both centrally and peripherally while fixating on an object.
Perimetry or campimetry is one way to test the visual field by systematically measuring differential light sensitivity in the visual field by the detection of test targets on a defined background.
Perimetry more carefully maps and quantifies the visual field, especially at the extreme periphery.
Static perimetry uses fixed targets while kinetic perimetry uses moving ones.
There are several methods for performing perimetry.
Visual fields by confrontation is a method in which the patient covers one eye and identifies how many fingers the examiner is holding up in different quadrants of the visual field.
The simplest form of perimetry devices uses a white tangent screen and presents different sized pins attached to a black wand, which may be moved, against a black background.
The pins may be white or colored.
The use of a white background and lights of incremental brightness is called "white-on-white" perimetry and is the most commonly used in clinical practice for the early detection of blind spots and research trials where loss of visual field must be measured.
However, the sensitivity of white-on-white perimetry is low and as many as 25-50 percent of the photoreceptor cells may be lost before changes in visual field acuity are detected.
The Goldmann perimeter is a hollow white spherical bowl positioned a set distance in front of the patient.
An examiner presents a test light of variable size and intensity, which may be fixed of move towards the center from the perimeter.
The Goldmann method is able to test the entire range of peripheral vision, and has been used for years to follow vision changes in glaucoma patients.
More recently, automated perimetry has become common.
Humphrey visual field is an example of automated, static perimetry that measures the level of light sensitivity within the field of vision by adjusting the intenisty and size of a target illumination.
Automated kinetic perimetry uses a mobile stimulus that is controlled by a perimetry machine, with the patient indicating whether he sees the light by pushing a button.
Tadalafil is a PDE5 inhibitor, currently marketed in pill form for treating erectile dysfunction (ED) under the name Cialis; it has recently been approved for the treatment of pulmonary arterial hypertension, and has been used for other conditions.
A semisynthetic cephalosporin antibiotic with antimicrobial activity similar to that of CEPHALORIDINE or CEPHALOTHIN, but somewhat less potent.
It is effective against both gram-positive and gram-negative organisms.
Unsymmetrical dimethylhydrazine (UDMH) (1,1-Dimethylhydrazine) is a toxic volatile hygroscopic clear liquid, with a sharp, fishy, ammoniacal smell typical for organic amines.
It turns yellowish on exposure to air and absorbs oxygen and carbon dioxide.
It mixes completely with water, ethanol, and kerosene.
UDMH is toxic, a carcinogen and can explode in the presence of oxidisers.
It can be absorbed through skin.
During the 1980s there was concern about the levels of UDMH in various foods being a cancer risk, especially for apple juice.
Klebsiella oxytoca is a Gram-negative, non-motile bacterium of the genus Klebsiella.
They are present in soil and water and part of the human intestinal tract flora.
K. oxytoca can spread to other parts of the body and cause life-threatening diseases, including pneumonia, urinary tract infections (UTIs), and bacteremia.
K. oxytoca is frequently spread in intensive care units or nursing homes and primarily affects individuals with diseases causing weak immune systems, including alcoholism, diabetes, chronic bronchopulmonary disease.
A species of the Chenopodium genus which is the source of edible seed called quinoa.
It contains makisterone A and other STEROIDS, some having ECDYSTEROID activity on insects.
IDH1 and IDH2 genes encode the isocitrate dehydrogenase 1 & 2 enzymes, respectively.
The isocitrate dehydrogenase 1 enzyme is primarily found in cytoplasm of cells as well as in peroxisomes.
The isocitrate dehydrogenase 2 enzyme is primarily found in mitochondria and involved in intermediary metabolism and energy production.
Mutations in the IDH1 & IDH2 genes are associated with various conditions, including 2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria, Maffucci syndrome, Ollier disease, cholangiocarcinoma, acute myeloid leukemia, myelofibrosis, and gliomas.
The mutations associated with Maffucci syndrome, Ollier disease, and other cancer-related conditions are somatic gain-of-function mutations in which the enzymes take on a new, abnormal function.
A hypha (plural hyphae) is a long, branching filamentous cell of a fungus, and also of unrelated Actinobacteria.
In fungi, hyphae are the main mode of vegetative growth, and are collectively called a mycelium.
Labetalol (Normodyne, Trandate) is a mixed alpha/beta adrenergic antagonist, which is used to treat high blood pressure.
Tri a 14, a lipid transfer protein, resulting in allergic reactions via ingestion, skin contact, and inhalation of Wheat flour.
Lynch syndrome (HNPCC or Hereditary nonpolyposis colorectal cancer) is an autosomal dominant genetic condition which has a high risk of colon cancer as well as other cancers including endometrium, ovary, stomach, small intestine, hepatobiliary tract, upper urinary tract, brain, and skin.
The increased risk for these cancers is due to inherited mutations that impair DNA mismatch repair.
HNPCC defects in DNA mismatch repair lead to microsatellite instability, also known as MSI-H, which is a hallmark of HNPCC.
MSI is identifiable in cancer specimens in the pathology laboratory.
Most cases result in changes in the lengths of dinucleotide repeats of the nucleobases cytosine and adenine (sequence: CACACACACA...).
HNPCC is known to be associated with mutations in genes involved in the DNA mismatch repair pathway: MSH2 MLH1 MSH6 PMS2 PMS1 TGFBR2 MLH3
A group of about 30 HPVs, typically transmitted through sexual contact.
Genital HPV infection is very common, with estimates suggesting that up to 75% of women will become infected with one or more of the sexually transmitted HPV types at some point during adulthood (Baseman and Koutsky, 2005).
Some sexually transmitted HPVs, such as types 6 and 11, can cause genital warts.
However, most HPV types that infect the genitals tend not to cause noticeable symptoms.
Persistent infection with a subset of about a dozen so-called high-risk sexually transmitted HPVs, including types 16,18,31, and 33, can lead to the development of anogenital cancers, including cervical, penile and anal.
HPV infection is a necessary factor in the development of nearly all cases of cervical cancer (Walboomers 1999).
Cervical Pap smear testing is used to detect HPV-induced cellular abnormalities.
This allows targeted surgical removal of pre-cancerous lesions prior to the development of invasive cervical cancer.
Octenedioic acid has been found to be slightly elevated in the urine of persons with abnormal fatty acid metabolism.
Panipenem (INN) is a carbapenem antibiotic used in combination with betamipron.
A 93-kDa serum glycoprotein encoded by C7 gene.
It is a polypeptide chain with 28 disulfide bridges.
In the formation of membrane attack complex, C7 is the next component to bind the C5b-6 complex forming a trimolecular complex C5b-7.
C5b-7 is lipophilic, resembles an integral membrane protein, and serves as an anchor for the late complement components, C8 and C9.
African horse sickness (AHS) is a highly infectious, and deadly disease.
It commonly affects horses, mules, donkeys and zebras.
It is caused by Viscerotropic virus of the genus Orbivirus belonging to the family Reoviridae.
This disease can be caused by any of the nine serotypes of this virus.
This disease is not directly contagious, but is known to be spread by insect vectors.
2-Ethylhydracrylate (2-EHA) is an acid generated by the L-isoleucine oxidation pathway.
Increased levels of 2-EHA is prominent in short/branched-chain acyl-CoA dehydrogenase deficiency (SBCADD), an autosomal recessive inherited condition caused by a defect in isoleucine catabolism.
To standardize the capture of a very specific subset of information about the drug/biologic substance described in subsection 2.3.S Drug Substance (Name, Manufacturer) of the ICH CTD - Module 3:Quality.
The Reptilase Clotting Time measures the conversion of fibrinogen to fibrin by snake venom Reptilase (Atroxin).
The enzyme is similar to thrombin, but unlike thrombin, is not affected by the presence of heparin.
It measures the availability of functional fibrinogen.
It is sometimes used in lupus anticoagulant screening, along with thrombin time, as a reflex test if any of the screening test results are out of range in order to detect the presence of non-heparin anticoagulants, dysfibrogenemia, or hypofibrogenemia.
Borrelia miyamotoi is a spirochetal bacterium that is closely related to the Borrelia species that causes tick-borne relapsing fever (TBRF), and it is more distantly related to the Borrelia species that cause Lyme disease.
First identified in 1995 in ticks from Japan, B. miyamotoi has since been detected in two species of North American ticks, the black-legged or "deer" tick (Ixodes scapularis) and the western black-legged tick (Ixodes pacificus).
These ticks are already known to transmit several diseases, including Lyme disease, anaplasmosis, and babesiosis.
Patients with B. miyamotoi infection are most likely to have fever, chills, and headache.
Other common symptoms included body and joint pain and fatigue.
Unlike Lyme disease, rash is uncommon, presenting in only 4 out of 51 patients.
Patients infected with B. miyamotoi have been treated with a 2-4 week course of doxycycline, amoxicillin, or ceftriaxone.
Fewer than 60 well-documented cases of human infection have been reported in the United States as of July 2015.
The route of transmission of B. miyamotoi to humans has not been firmly established, but likely involves the bite of infected black-legged ticks.
The glpQ gene encodes a periplasmic enzyme, glycerophosphodiester phosphodiesterase of 333 amino acids produced initially with a 25 residue long signal sequence.
GlpQ is not found in Borrelia species that cause Lyme disease.
Hawkinsin ((2-L-cystein-S-yl-1,4-dihydroxycyclohex-5-en-1-yl)-acetic acid) is an intermediate metabolite in the 4-hydroxyphenylpyruvate hydroxylase reaction, and is elevated in the urine of patients with an autosomal dominant inborn error of metabolism called hawkinsinuria.
Hawkinsinuria is caused by heterozygous mutation in the HPD gene, which is on chromosome 12q24, and encodes 4-hydroxyphenylpyruvic acid dioxygenase.
Metabolic acidosis and tyrosinemia are transient, and symptoms improve within the first year of life.
Some patients have been successfully treated with a special diets, such as tyrosine and phenylalanine restriction or general protein restriction, which resulted in metabolic correction and rapid catch-up growth.
von Willebrand factor (vWF) cleaving protease, or ADAMTS13, is a metalloprotease that cleaves vWF and thereby limits platelet aggregation and formation of microthrombi.
vWF cleaving protease inhibitors can decrease the protease activity and/or more rapidly remove the enzyme from the circulation.
Such inhibitors are one cause of thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura (TTP), a disorder characterized by thrombocytopenia, anemia, fever, and neurologic and renal abnormalities.
Idiopathic TTP is often due to anti-ADAMTS13 autoantibodies, while inherited TTP is an autosomal recessive disorder due to mutations in the ADAMTS13 gene that lead to impaired protease function.
Work-up of patients with TTP can include vWF cleaving protease activity and, if that activity is low, inhibitor screen followed by quantification.
B cell-activating factor (BAFF) is an immunomodulatory cytokine that advances the survival of B cells, the class switch recombination of heavy-chains, and can also activate T-cells.
BAFF-R is the BAFF cell surface receptor and is present on the majority of B cells and a subset of T cells in the circulation.
BAFF and BAFF-R normally play a role in B- and T- cell development and regulating humoral immunity, but in pathological conditions, may promote the survival of malignant B cells.
The expression of BAFF-R has been associated with 78% of lymphoproliferative disorders including follicular lymphoma, marginal zone lymphoma, chronic lymphocytic leukemia, hairy cell leukemia, and diffuse large B-cell lymphoma, but not others such as precursor B lymphoblastic lymphoma, Burkitt lymphoma, and nodular lymphocyte-predominant Hodgkin lymphoma.
In addition, BAFF-R is not a marker for classical Hodgkin lymphoma and T-cell lymphomas.
Elaeis is a genus consisting of only 2 species of Palms.
Elaeis guineensis originally occurred in Africa, and Elaeis oleifera in Central and South America.
The trees are now cultivated throughout the tropics and sometimes grown as ornamentals in other parts of the world, in particular in southern Florida.
Palm oil from this genus is the second most frequently consumed vegetable oil in the world.
Oil palm pollen may commonly induce symptoms of allergic rhinitis and asthma in sensitised individuals.
BK virus (BKV) is a ubiquitous polyoma virus (belonging to the family Papovaviridae) that is often acquired during early childhood.
BKV is a small (~45 nm) icosahedral, non-enveloped double-stranded DNA virus composed of 5,000 base pairs.
The primary BKV infection often occurs around ages 3-4 years old, after which it lies dormant in the genito-urinary tract and can become reactivated in certain immunocompromised disease states including renal transplant and HIV.
A higher prevalence of BKV is seen among HIV positive patients with lower CD4 cell counts.
The mechanism for BKV transmission is still unknown but is speculated to be fecal-oral, respiratory, and via organ transplant.
Peripheral deiodinase activity is the rate of conversion of circulating T4 to the biologically active T3 by monodeiodination.
Changes in peripheral deiodinase activity may reflect conditions that are difficult to diagnose based on traditional thyroid function tests, such as non-thyroidal illness syndrome.
Estimated sum activity of peripheral deiodinases (GD) represents deiodination capacity, i.e. the maximal amount of T3 that can be formed from T4 in one second.
SPINA-GD is calculated with GD = beta31 * (KM1 +) *
(1 + K30 *) * / (alpha31 *) or GD = beta31 * (KM1 +) * / (alpha31 *) from serum or plasma concentrations of free (FT3) or total (TT3) triiodothyronine and free (FT4) or total (TT4) thyroxine, and some constants (alpha31 = Dilution factor for T3: 0.026 l-1; beta31 = Clearance exponent for T3: 8e-6 sec-1; KM1 = Dissociation constant of type-1-deiodinase: 5e-7 mol/l; K30 = Dissociation constant T3-TBG: 2e9 l/mol)
Castor bean plant, Ricinus communis, is known to have several components with allergenic and/ or toxic properties.
Castor bean meal is used as a fertilizer.
The oil is known for its effect on intestinal peristalsis.
Allergy to the pollen of this plant has also been reported (1, 2).
Inhalation allergy to castor bean dust has mostly been reported from occupational settings (agricultural industry (3), docks, castor oil mills and coffee roasteries (4-8)).
Crossreactivity between sheep's whey and cow's milk and whey might be expected.
MAM-2201 is a synthetic cannabis compound.
MAM-2201 is similar to AM-2201 but with an added methyl ring.
Synthetic cannabinoids and their metabolites are psychoactive designer drugs derived of natural herbs sprayed with synthetic chemicals that, when consumed, allegedly mimic the pleasurable effects of cannabis.
Vitamin E is fat soluble, and malabsorption and deficiency may develop in cases of chronic intraluminal intestinal bile deficiency.
This has been particularly noted in premature infants and children with biliary atresia or cystic fibrosis (chronic intrahepatic cholestasis).
Clinically this may lead to a hemolytic anemia, due to increased erythrocyte fragility, or to a slowly progressive neurologic disorder characterized by ataxia, areflexia, gaze disturbances, and loss of proprioception and vibratory sensation.
A similar syndrome has been reported in adults with malabsorption.
The syndrome may respond to treatment with parenteral vitamin E. Early treatment with vitamin E may delay or prevent the neuropathy with ataxia that develops during the course of abetalipoproteinemia.
Vitamin E therapy, in some cases, may have a favorable effect on moderate and severe cases of the retinopathy of prematurity and the retinopathy of abetalipoproteinemia.
While lipid malabsorption syndrome (with steatorrhea and malabsorption of vitamin E) may be etiologically related to ataxic spinocerebellar neurologic degenerative disease, there are reports of familial and sporadic vitamin E deficiency with neurologic impairment in the absence of fat malabsorption or demonstrated plasma lipoprotein level abnormality.
An inherited defect in hepatocyte secretion of vitamin E into lipoprotein has been proposed.
The importance of not overlooking a treatable cause of neurologic degenerative disease has been emphasized.
Topotecan (brand name Hycamtin) is used to treat ovarian cancer after failure of first-line chemotherapy, for second-line treatment of small cell lung cancer, and for cervical cancer (FDA approved in adults).
Topotecan has also been used to treat other cancers, including non-small cell lung cancer, myelodysplastic syndrome, and various pediatric solid tumors.
Topotecan blood levels are monitored during treatment to monitor side effects and check response to therapy.
Tripelennamine (sold as Pyribenzamine by Novartis) is a psychoactive drug and member of the pyridine and ethylenediamine classes that is used as an antipruritic and first-generation antihistamine.
It can be used in the treatment of asthma, hay fever, rhinitus and urticaria, but is now less common as it has been replaced by newer antihistamines.
Rifabutin is a bactericidal antibiotic drug primarily used in the treatment of tuberculosis.
The drug is a semi-synthetic derivative of rifamycin S.
Its effect is based on blocking the DNA-dependend RNA-polymerase of the bacteria.
It is effective against Gram-positive and some Gram-negative bacteria, but also against the highly resistant Mycobacteria, e.g. Mycobacterium tuberculosis, M. leprae and M. avium intracellulare.
One single unit of random donor platelets is not enough to appreciably increase the platelet count of a patient.
Therefore, the usual dose in an adult patient with bleeding and a platelet count below 20,000/uL is 6-8 units of random donor platelets.
Therefore, 6-8 units of random donor platelets are pooled into one bag of "Pooled Platelets".
Mitragynine (MG) is one of the primary alkaloids of kratom, which is the name given to the leaves and leaf extracts of the Mitragyna speciose tree.
It is not an opioid but has similar effects without the same degree of respiratory depression and potential for abuse.
Kratom was used for centuries in parts of the world, including Southeast Asia where the tree is native, for pain management, and more recently has been used for opioid withdrawal.
However, its use is controversial, and it is illegal in some parts of the world, including Thailand, Australia, and many other countries, as well as several states in the United States.
Glimepiride is a medium-to-long acting sulfonylurea anti-diabetic drug.
It is marketed as Amaryl and Glista OD.
Glimepiride is the first third-generation sulfonylurea, and is very potent.
It is used to treat type 2 diabetes mellitus by increasing insulin production in the pancreas.
Side effects include gastrointestinal tract (GI) disturbance, and rarely thrombocytopenia, leukopenia, hemolytic anemia, and allergic reactions occur.
Wolf-Hirschhorn syndrome is caused by a deletion of the short (p) arm of chromosome 4 (4p-).
The size of the deletion varies among affected individuals with larger deletions tending to result in more severe intellectual disability and physical abnormalities than smaller deletions.
The signs and symptoms of Wolf-Hirschhorn are related to the loss of multiple genes on the short arm of chromosome 4, including WHSC1, LETM1, and MSX1.
Researchers believe that loss of the WHSC1 gene is associated with many of the characteristic features of Wolf-Hirschhorn syndrome, including the distinctive facial appearance and developmental delay.
Deletion of the LETM1 gene appears to be associated with seizures or other abnormal electrical activity in the brain.
A loss of the MSX1 gene may be responsible for the dental abnormalities and cleft lip and/or palate that are often seen with this condition.
Between 85 and 90 percent of all cases of Wolf-Hirschhorn syndrome are not inherited.
In the remaining cases, an affected individual inherits a copy of 4p- a parent who carries a balanced chromosomal rearrangement between chromosome 4 and another chromosome.
No genetic material is gained or lost in a balanced translocation, so these chromosomal changes usually do not cause any health problems in the parent.
Anaplasma is a genus of rickettsiales bacteria.
Anaplasmas reside in host red blood cells and lead to anaplasmosis, a disease most commonly occurs in tropical areas of the world.
Anaplasmas require intermediate tick hosts for maturation, and flies may act as mechanical vectors.
The major consequence of infection is the development of haemolytic anaemia due to the damage done to red blood cells.
Species of veterinary interest include: Anaplasma marginale and Anaplasma centrale in cattle Anaplasma mesaeterum and Anaplasma ovis in sheep and goats
Levmetamfetamine (other names: l-desoxyephedrine, l-methamphetamine, levo-methamphetamine) is the l- stereoisomer of methamphetamine, a sympathomimetic vasoconstrictor which may be used in over-the-counter nasal decongestants.
The common brand-name for levmetamfetamine in the U.S. is the Vicks Inhaler.
L-methamphetamine alone can raise blood pressure and cause the heart to beat rapidly due to its effects mimicking the sympathetic nervous system, but is not thought to be nearly as addictive or centrally active as the d- isomer of methamphetamine.
Its common side effects include muscle tremors and stomach cramps.
The Almond is the fruit of a vigorous, deep-rooted deciduous small tree belonging to the Rose family, which grows best in areas with dry, warm summers.
The plant is believed to be a native of northern Africa and the Middle East.
It occurs wild in Sicily and Greece and is extensively cultivated in northern Africa, southern Europe, Australia and the warmer parts of the United States, particularly California.
Almond may frequently result in sensitisation and may commonly induce symptoms of food allergy.
Fibroblast growth factor 19 (FGF-19), is encoded by the FGF19 gene.
It binds to fibroblast growth factor receptor 4 and is involved in adipocyte glucose uptake and the suppression of bile acid biosynthesis.
FGF-19 is fully active in the presence of a cofactor - beta-Klotho protein.
FGF-19 is created after every meal and plays a role in increasing glucose tolerance and insulin sensitivity and decreasing gluconeogenesis.
Obesity in adults and non-alcoholic fatty liver disease in obese adolescents is associated with lower levels of FGF-19, while patients on hemodialysis have higher FGF-19 levels compared to the healthy population.
A plant species in the genus SAMBUCUS, known for the elderberry fruit.
The plant is also a source of Sambucus nigra lectins and ribosome-inactivating protein.
Flucloxacillin (INN) or floxacillin (USAN) is a narrow spectrum beta-lactam antibiotic.
It is used to treat infections caused by susceptible Gram-positive bacteria.
Notably, it is active against beta-lactamase -producing organisms such as Staphylococcus aureus, which would otherwise be resistant to most penicillins.
It is very similar to dicloxacillin and these two agents are considered interchangeable.
Flucloxacillin is available under a variety of trade names including Flopen (CSL) and Floxapen (GSK).
An appropriate reference standard of fat intake necessary for an individual patient.
This reference standard base is then compared to the patient's estimated total fat intake and used to develop the nutrition prescription.
A biogenic amine that is found in animals and plants.
In mammals, melatonin is produced by the PINEAL GLAND.
Its secretion increases in darkness and decreases during exposure to light.
Melatonin is implicated in the regulation of SLEEP, mood, and REPRODUCTION.
Melatonin is also an effective antioxidant.
Arabitol or arabinitol is a sugar alcohol.
It can be formed by the reduction of either arabinose or lyxose.
Some organic acid tests check for the presence of D-arabinitol, which may indicate overgrowth of intestinal parasites such as Candida albicans or other yeast/fungus species.
The delta dRVVT is the difference between the dRVVT screen time and dRVVT confirm time.
The name Blueberry is given to several related shrubs, and at least 50 species belong to the same genus as Blueberry.
The round, smooth-skinned, blue-black berries are juicy and sweet and only about 10 mm in diameter.
The Highbush variety of bush can grow up to 5 m in height; the hardier Lowbush blueberry plants can reach 1 m high.
Blueberries are found wild and are cultivated in temperate to cold climates.
Anecdotal evidence suggests that Blueberry can occasionally induce symptoms of food allergy in sensitised individuals; however, no studies have been reported to date.
A qualitative judgement of the breast milk intake in relation to nutrient needs.
The SDHA gene (succinate dehydrogenase complex flavoprotein subunit A) is located on chromosome 5p15.
This gene encodes a major catalytic subunit of succinate-ubiquinone oxidoreductase, a complex of the mitochondrial respiratory chain.
The complex is composed of four nuclear-encoded subunits and is localized in the mitochondrial inner membrane.
Mutations in this gene have been associated with a form of mitochondrial respiratory chain deficiency known as Leigh Syndrome.
A pseudogene has been identified on chromosome 3q29.
Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
Suvorexant is a hypnotic drug with a novel mechanism of action.
The drug produces rapid onset of sleep by inhibiting the orexin neurons of the arousal system, promoting decreased wakefulness.
Suvorexant is a potent and highly selective dual orexin receptor antagonist.
Beta vulgaris produces sugar from its large, white, conical tap roots.
Large-scale cultivation in Europe began during the Napoleonic wars when the British blockade stopped imports of sugar cane from the West Indies.
The Sugar-beet is native to Europe and the Middle East but is now cultivated worldwide as a commercial sugar crop in temperate climates.
Sugar-beet seed may uncommonly induce allergy symptoms in sensitised individuals, predominantly in occupational settings such as the animal feed industry and farms.
Rh is the most complex of the blood groups systems, encompassing over 45 distinct antigens.
The most clinical important antigen, D or Rho, was first described in 1940 and is present in over 85% of the population.
Those individuals who lack the D antigen are considered to be Rh negative.
The Rh antigens are encoded by two highly homologous and closely linked genes on the short arm of chromosome 1.
The RHD gene codes for the D antigen, or most of its components; RhCE gene codes the Cc and Ee antigens or their variants.
The majority of the antigens within this system represent products of gene cross-over, point mutations or deletions within one or both genes.
The Rh antigens appear to be expressed only on red blood cell and they appear early during red cell development.
Antibodies against the Rh antigens have caused severe and fatal transfusion reactions and hemolytic disease of the newborn.
Rh antigens have been implicated in many diseases such as auto-immune hemolytic anemia, auto-Rh antibodies.
Collect: One 4 mL green (sodium or lithium heparin) or serum separator tube.
Also acceptable: lavender or pink (EDTA).
Chromatin is the genetic material that condenses to form chromosomes during eukaryotic cell division.
Emerging evidence suggests associations between DNA integrity and chromatin organization in spermatozoa and fertility (Sakkas et al., 1998; Aitken & Krausz, 2001; Virro et al., 2004).
Spermatozoa morphological defects have been associated with increased DNA fragmentation (Gandini et al., 2000), an increased incidence of structural chromosomal aberrations (Lee et al., 1996), immature chromatin.
A methyl xanthine derivative from tea with diuretic, smooth muscle relaxant, bronchial dilation, cardiac and central nervous system stimulant activities.
Theophylline inhibits the 3',5'-cyclic nucleotide phosphodiesterase that degrades cyclic AMP thus it potentiates the actions of agents that act through adenylate cyclase and cyclic AMP.
Cefacetrile (INN, also spelled cephacetrile) is a broad-spectrum first generation cephalosporin antibiotic effective in Gram-positive and Gram-negative bacterial infections.
It is a bacteriostatic antibiotic.
Cefacetrile is marketed under the trade names Celospor, Celtol, and Cristacef.
Micromegakaryocytes are caused by dysmegakaryocytopoiesis, meaning the bone marrow is not making normal megakaryocytes.
Micromegakaryocytes are typically seen in the peripheral blood in Myelodysplastic Syndromes (MDS) which are considered "pre-leukemia" syndromes.
The most obvious distinguishing characteristic of a micromegakaryocyte is the cytoplasm which is pale blue and may contain pink granules reminiscent of a mature platelet.
Smudge-like nuclear chromatin also aids in the identification of a cell as a micromegakaryocyte.
n-Butyl acetate, also known as butyl ethanoate, is an organic compound commonly used as a solvent in the production of lacquers and other products.
It is also used as a synthetic fruit flavoring in foods such as candy, ice cream, cheeses, and baked goods.
Butyl acetate is found in many types of fruit, where along with other chemicals it imparts characteristic flavors.
Apples, especially of the Red Delicious variety, are flavored in part by this chemical.
It is a colorless flammable liquid with a sweet smell of banana.
The other three isomers of butyl acetate are: isobutyl acetate, tert-butyl acetate, and sec-butyl acetate.
Niacin (also known as B3 or nicotinic acid) is a water-soluble nutrient that is part of the B vitamin family.
B vitamins help to support adrenal function, maintain a healthy nervous system, and are necessary for key metabolic processes.
Niacin is essential for the metabolism of carbohydrates and fats.
Pellagra is a nutritional disease that develops due to insufficient dietary amounts of vitamin B3.
Symptoms of pellagra include skin disease, diarrhea, dementia and depression.
Salmon and tuna, eggs, leafy vegetables, broccoli, tomatoes, carrots, sweet potatoes, avocados, nuts, whole grains, legumes and mushrooms are good dietary sources.
An adrenergic agonist that appears to interact with beta-2 and some alpha adrenergic receptors.
It has been used as a vasoconstrictor agent.
CA 242 is a tumor marker for sialylated Lewis carbohydrates associated with adenocarcinomas and e-selectin mediated metastatic risk.
Shiga-like toxin is generated by some strains of Escherichia coli, known as Stx-producing E. coli (STEC).
Shiga-like toxins are named for their similarity to the AB5-type shiga toxin produced by the bacteria Shigella dysenteriae.
There are two primary types, known as Stx1 (also Stx1a or SLT1) and Stx2 (also Stx2a or SLT2).
Variants of Stx1 and Stx2 have been identified but they are rarely found in clinical specimens and few are clinically significant.
Shiga-like toxins are associated with hemolytic-uremic syndrome (HUS) in which patients present with thrombocytopenia, hemolytic anemia, and kidney failure.
Shiga toxin producing E. coli (STEC) is also known as enterohemorrhagic E. coli (EHEC) and verotocix E. coli (VTEC).
STEC are strains capable of producing Shiga toxin and typically cause blood diarrhea.
Hemolytic-uremic syndrome complicates 6-9 percent of STEC infections overall and about 15 percent of STEC infections in children under age 10.
STEC strains are typically have one or both stx genes that encode for Shiga Toxins 1 and 2.
Sertindole (brand names: Serdolect and Serlect) is an atypical antipsychotic that effects dopamine and serotonin receptors in the brain and is used for the treatment of schizophrenia.
In 2009, the FDA determined that sertindole was effective in the treatment of schizophrenia but considered unsafe based on findings showing increased risks for cardiac anomalies, weight gain, rhinitis, and problems with sexual functioning compared to haloperidol..
As of October 2010, sertindole has not been approved for use in the United States by the FDA.
A synthetic anti-inflammatory glucocorticoid derived from CORTISONE.
It is biologically inert and converted to PREDNISOLONE in the liver.
A semisynthetic ergotamine alkaloid that is a dopamine D2 agonist.
It suppresses prolactin secretion.
A food, which may result in allergy symptoms in sensitised individuals.
Guar gum is an emulsifier, a firming agent, a formulation aid, a stabiliser, and a thickener.
A species of gram-negative, intracellular, aerobic bacteria that causes rocky mountain spotted fever.
The disease occurs mainly from April through October when ticks are active.
3 alpha, 15 beta, 17 alpha-Trihydroxypregnanediolone (or 15 beta-hydroxypregnanediolone) is a 15-beta-hydroxysteroid and a component of urinary steroid profiling analyses for diagnosing conditions such as 21-hydroxylase deficiency.
The LW and D antigens are closely related.
Rh+ red cells express LW more strongly than Rh negative cells.
The early nomenclature tried to accommodate this observation by using a numerical system; eg. LW1, LW2, etc.
but this changed following Sistonen's report of a new low frequency antigen called Ne^a which was found in ~5% of Finns.
Because further work suggested that the Ne^a gene was allelic to LW, they were renamed LW^a and LW^b (Ne^a).
Thus, the null phenotype for this system would be LW(a-b-) which is extremely rare and is the result of a partial gene deletion.
A transient or acquired form of LW(a-b-) has been reported and these individuals are found because they produce a transient anti-LW.
Some (but not all) examples have been associated with terminal illnesses such as Hodgkin's disease, leukemia, sarcomas or other malignancies.
CD10 is used to classify acute lymphoblastic leukemias and lymphomas.
Correlation with other cell markers and histochemical status may be useful.
Vibrio cholerae (also Kommabacillus) is a gram negative comma-shaped bacterium with a polar flagellum that causes cholera in humans.
V. cholerae and other species of the genus Vibrio belong to the gamma subdivision of the Proteobacteria.
There are two major biotypes of V. cholerae, classical and El Tor, and numerous serogroups.
An enema is a solution injected into the rectum for cleansing the rectum or for therapeutic purposes.
Enemas are used to flush out stool, administer nutrients and medications or provide contrast materials for the use of an examination of the lower intestine (e.g. barium enema).
The European White Elm Ulmus laevis is a large tree native to Europe, from France northeast to southern Finland, and southeast to Bulgaria and the Crimea ; there is also a disjunct population in the Caucasus.
Essentially a riparian species, it is most commonly encountered along rivers such as the Volga and Danube.
It is the only elm tolerant of waterlogged ground, its massive shallow root system forming distinctive high buttresses around the base of the trunk.
Like other European elms, it has little innate resistance to Dutch elm disease, but is eschewed by the vector bark beetles and only rarely becomes infected.
Its decline in Europe is chiefly owing to woodland clearance in river valleys.
Introduced specimens in Britain are few and far between, but sometimes of great age.
Several old trees survive amid diseased native elm near Torpoint in Cornwall.
Stable blood coagulation factor involved in the intrinsic pathway.
The activated form XIa activates factor IX to IXa.
Deficiency of factor XI is often called hemophilia C.
Campylobacter fetus is a species of Gram-negative, motile bacteria with a characteristic S -shaped rod morphology similar to members of the genus Vibrio.
Like other members of the Campylobacter genus, C. fetus is oxidase -positive.
In addition to causing some cases of abortion in cattle and sheep, C. fetus is an opportunistic human pathogen and can cause bacteremia and thrombophlebitis.
Though rare, C. fetus can lead to fatal septicemia in newborns and immunocompromised individuals.
Bacteremia can lead to localized infections of the meninges in the brain, the respiratory pleural spaces or lungs, joints, the pericardial sac around the heart, or the peritoneum.
Tigecycline is a broad-spectrum glycylcyline antibiotic and a semisynthetic tetracycline.
It has activity against a broad range of Gram-positive, Gram-negative, atypical, anaerobic and antibiotic-resistant bacteria.
This includes activity against MRSA, VRE and penicillin resistant Streptococcus pneumoniae.
It is administered by intravenous infusion.
Cerium (Ce) is a rare metal that combines with oxygen to form CeO2 nanoparticles (nanoceria).
Nanoceria have a highly reactive surface area for neutralization of radicals and can reversibly bind oxygen and shift oxidation states (Ce3+/Ce4+), which make them potentially useful as therapeutic antioxidants for diseases associated with oxidative stress.
However, pro-oxidant effects have also been associated with nanoceria.
The antioxidant versus pro-oxidant effects may depend on the biologic characteristics of different nanoceria, including method of synthesis and particle size; research in these areas is ongoing.
Cyclic guanosine monophosphate (cGMP) is a cyclic nucleotide derived from guanosine triphosphate (GTP).
cGMP acts as a second messenger much like cyclic AMP, most notably by activating intracellular protein kinases in response to the binding of membrane-impermeable peptide hormones to the external cell surface.
Commercial dessert (or common) Banana cultivars most frequently eaten in temperate countries are of the species M. acuminata or the hybrid M. x paradisiaca, a cultigen).
Banana may commonly induce symptoms of food allergy in Latex-sensitised individuals, but may also induce symptoms of food allergy in non-Latex sensitised individuals.
Whitlockite is a mineral, an unusual form of calcium phosphate.
Its formula is Ca9(MgFe)(PO4)6PO3OH.
Whitlockite can be found in biological systems and has been implicated in several human diseases.
Whitlockite can be found at many different sites in the human body, but is particularly concentrated in calcified tissues, such as embryonic and adult bone.
The highest concentrations of whitlockite appear in the weight bearing area of the femoral head.
Traces of whitlockite have also been found in tuberculous lesions, urinary calculi and even prostatic deposits.
Whitlockite can also be found in the oral cavity, where it is a primary component of dental calculi and salivary stones.
Lastly, whitlockite can be found in aortic media, where it may be involved in arteriosclerosis.
The presence of whitlockite at these different locations has not attracted much attention from biomedical scientists or clinicians, chiefly because whitlockite is not visible with the stains used to routinely examine microscopic sections of healthy or diseased tissue.
However, the presence of whitlockite does become obvious when X-ray diffraction is used to examine these same sections.
In part, whitlockite occurs commonly in biologic systems because of the high concentrations of proteolipids and divalent cations in biologic fluids.
Formation of this type of whitlockite is magnesium rich, and is preferred at temperatures typical of biologic systems because of the smaller diameter of the magnesium ion compared to calcium.
Stromelysin-1 (MMP-3, Matrix metalloproteinase-1) is an enzyme that in humans is encoded by the MMP3 gene.
The MMP3 gene is part of a cluster of MMP genes which localize to chromosome 11q22.3.
Proteins of the matrix metalloproteinase (MMP) family are involved in the breakdown of extracellular matrix and tissue remodeling, including embryonic development and reproduction.
MMPs are also associated with disease processes, including arthritis and tumour metastasis.
The MMP-3 enzyme degrades collagen types II, III, IV, IX, and X, proteoglycans, fibronectin, laminin, and elastin.
In addition, MMP-3 can also activate other MMPs such as MMP-1, MMP-7, and MMP-9, rendering MMP-3 crucial in connective tissue remodeling.
The enzyme is thought to be involved in wound repair, progression of atherosclerosis, and tumor initiation.
Uridine monophosphate (UMP) synthetase is a bifunctional enzyme that catalyzes the final two steps of the de novo pyrimidine biosynthetic pathway.
The first reaction is carried out by the N-terminal enzyme orotate phosphoribosyltransferase which converts orotic acid to orotidine-5'-monophosphate.
The terminal reaction is carried out by the C-terminal enzyme OMP decarboxylase which converts orotidine-5'-monophosphate to uridine monophosphate.
Defects in the UMPS Gene are the cause of hereditary orotic aciduria.
To standardize the capture of a product information for recombinant deoxyribonucleic acid construct drugs utilized in genetically engineered animals.
Penicillin administered parenterally, or by injection, when it cannot be taken orally.
Rose hip is the edible ripe "fruit" of the Rose plant (usually the Dog or Wild rose), the pod and the base of the flower, and is typically red to orange, but might be dark purple to black in some varieties.
Rose-hips are a popular natural remedy for many complaints, including osteoarthritis, rheumatoid arthritis, and lower back pain.
Anecdotal evidence suggests that Rose hip may uncommonly induce symptoms of food allergy in sensitised individuals; however, few studies have been reported to date.
The pertussis toxin (PT) promoter region is involved in the regulation of virulence factors for Bordetella pertussis and is a commonly used target for the DNA-based diagnosis of B. pertussis infections.
Since the PT promoter region is present in other Bordetella species, including B. parapertussis, generic primers may be used for rapid detection and differentiation of the species.
Mumps or epidemic parotitis is a viral disease of humans.
Prior to the development of a vaccine, it was a common childhood disease worldwide, and is still a significant threat to health in the third world.
Painful swelling of the salivary glands (classically the parotid gland) and fever are the most typical symtoms.
Painful testicular swelling and rash may also occur.
Whereas symptoms are generally not severe in children, in teenagers and adults they can be more severe and complications such as infertility or subfertility may occur.
The disease is generally self-limiting, and there is no specific treatment apart from controlling the symptoms with painkillers.
Mumps Classifications and external resources ICD-10 B 26.
A species of gram-positive bacteria in the family Clostridiaceae isolated from infected CATTLE; SHEEP; and other animals.
It causes blackleg in cattle and sheep and is transmitted through soil-borne spores.
M2-3E (BPO) antigen is a recombinant fusion protein that is made up of the E2 subunits of the branched-chain 2-oxoacid dehydrogenase (BCOADH), pyruvate dehydrogenase (PDH) and 2-oxoglutarate dehydrogenase (OGDH).
The presence of anti-mitochondrial antibodies (AMA) against M2-3E antigens is used for the diagnosis of primary biliary liver cirrhosis (PBC), an immune-mediated chronic inflammatory liver disease of unknown cause.
Approximately 86% of patients with PBC have M2-3E autoantibodies.
Various dissection methods for use with frozen or paraffin-embedded tissue sections exist that allow investigators to select the cells or areas of interest for further examination and to separate them cleanly from the background tissue.
These methods include laser capture, microdissection under microscopy, manual dissection, and coring from block.
Yellow-red-brown fine needles, granules, or plates, associated with increased serum bilirubin.
(Koontz A. Clinical Significance of Formed Elements in Urine.
Chloramine-T is a small-molecule oxidising agent that has been widely used as a disinfectant since the beginning of this century.
This highly reactive derivative of chlorine has potent bactericidal properties.
White or yellow crystals of the substance are prepared from p-toluenesulphonamide and sodium hypochlorite, and have a chlorine-like odour.
Veterinary Medicine: Cefovecin is an extended-spectrum semi-synthetic cephalosporin used to treat gram negative and gram positive bacterial infections in dogs and cats.
Cefovecin is active against major aerobic and anaerobic bacterial pathogens associated with skin, wound, urinary tract, and periodontal infections.
A single injection provides a complete 14-day course of therapy.
Chromosome region 4q25 g.111710169C>T (rs2200733) is the mot common single nucleotide polymorphism in patients with atrial fibrillation (AF).
It is associated with recurrence of atrial arrhythmias after catheter ablation of AF.
This variant is located upstream of PITX2 and is thought to play a role in regulation of PITX2 expression.
8-Dehydrocholesterol (8-DHC) elevated concentration is one of the diagnostic biochemical hallmarks of classical Smith-Lemli-Opitz syndrome (SLOS).
Plasma 8-DHC could be only marginally elevated.
Smith-Lemli-Opitz syndrome (SLOS) is an autosomal recessive condition caused by a defect in cholesterol synthesis (caused by a deficit of 3beta-hydroxysterol-Delta7 reductase).
Affected children often have malformations and mental retardation.
Autistic behaviors also are evident.
In children, the baseline cholesterol, 8-DHC levels, and cholesterol levels following supplementation does not correlate with the presence or severity of autistic symptoms.
Accumulation of 8-dehydrocholesterol in Amniotic fluid is diagnostic for SLOS.
Leukocyte clumps are white blood cells grouped together by agglutination.
Leukocyte clumps in urine indicate the presence of an infection or inflammation, especially in the kidney (e.g. pyelonephritis, interstitial inflammation, parenchymal infections).
Leukocyte clumps in the blood may be associated with cancer, including non-Hodgkins lymphoma and chronic lymphocytic leukemia.
Hyoscyamine, is a tropane alkaloid and the levorotary isomer to atropine.
It is a secondary metabolite found in certain plants of the Solanaceae family, including henbane (Hyoscyamus niger), mandrake (Mandragora officinarum), jimsonweed (Datura stramonium), and deadly nightshade (Atropa belladonna).
Brand names for hyoscyamine include Symax, HyoMax, Anaspaz, Buwecon, Cystospaz, Levsin, Levbid, Levsinex, Donnamar, NuLev, Spacol T/S, Buscopan (containing the derivative hyoscine-N-butylbromide), Hyospasmol (also hyoscine-N-butylbromide) and Neoquess.
Sweet vernal grass is a grass species producing pollen, which often induces hayfever, asthma and conjunctivitis in sensitised individuals.
The GRHPR gene (glyoxylate reductase/hydroxypyruvate reductase) is located on chromosome 9q12.
This gene encodes an enzyme with hydroxypyruvate reductase, glyoxylate reductase, and D-glycerate dehydrogenase enzymatic activities.
The enzyme has widespread tissue expression and has a role in metabolism.
Type II hyperoxaluria is caused by mutations in this gene.
Zotepine (brand names: Losizopilon, Lodopin, Setous, Zoleptil) is a second generation atypical antipsychotic drug with effects on dopamine, serotonin and noradrenaline receptors.
It is primarily used for the treatment of acute and chronic schizophrenia.
Zotepine's active metabolite, norzotepine, functions as a potent norepinephrine reuptake inhibitor.
In combination with a mood stabilizer, zotepine has been found to be as effective as haloperidol.
C-X-C motif chemokine 13 (CXCL13) also known as B lymphocyte chemoattractant (BLC) is a protein that in humans is encoded by the CXCL13 gene.
In T-lymphocytes, CXCL13 expression is thought to reflect a germinal center origin of the T-cell.
Hence, expression of CXCL13 in T-cell lymphomas, such as Angioimmunoblastic T-cell Lymphoma, is thought to reflect a germinal center origin of the neoplastic T-cells.
The V214A mutation is associated with Adefovir and Tenofovir resistance
Atriplex polycarpa (Allscale, Cattle spinach, Allscale saltbush, Cattle saltbush) is a plant in the Amaranthaceae family.
It is native to the southwestern United States and northern Mexico.
Urinary casts are cylindrical aggregations of particles that form in the distal nephron of the kidney and can be seen in urine samples examined by light microscopy.
Many types of casts exist, including red blood cell, white blood cell, and fatty casts.
Mixed cellular casts are casts that contain multiple types of cells.
Different types of casts are associated with different diseases, for example, white blood cell casts are indicators of kidney infection, and fatty casts can be seen in patients with nephrotic syndrome.
Enterotoxigenic Escherichia coli (ETEC) produces a heat-labile (LT) and a heat-stable (ST) enterotoxin, both of which cause severe diarrhea in both humans and animals.
ST is an extracellular toxin which is comprised of a methanol-soluble (STa) toxin and a methanol-insoluble (STb) toxin.
The sta gene encodes the STa toxin and the stb gene encodes the STb toxin. ; STa combines to its enterocyte receptor, guanylate cyclase, which causes intestinal secretion and diarrhea.
The STb enterocyte receptor is the protein sulfatide.
After STb binds to sulfatide, it is engulfed by the enterocyte.
It then activates the pertussis toxin-sensitive G protein which opens the ligand-gated calcium ion channel, allowing an influx of calcium ions.
A subsequent secretion of chloride ions, stimulation of arachidonic acid release, and production of prostaglandin E2 and 5-dyroxytryptamine leads to an efflux of water, bicarbonate ions, sodium ions, and chloride ions into the intestinal space, all of which leads to watery diarrhea.
4-Nitrophenol (also called p-nitrophenol or 4-hydroxynitrobenzene) is a phenolic compound that has a nitro group at the opposite position of hydroxy group on the benzene ring.
Iodide (I-) is an ion.
Iodine (I2) is the form found in nature and is an essential nutrient in the diet.
The submittor of this term t use ion chromatography with an ion-specific electrode that is only sensitive to the charged I- atom.
Therefore, they will not detect Iodine (I2) in the sample.
Note however that when iodine is ingested it gets converted to iodide as it is absorbed from the gastrointestinal tract (from Goodman & Gillman's The Pharmacological Basis of Therapeutics., 9th ed) so ingested and digested idodine will be detected.
Pur iodien is in a biological sample for any other reason (e.g., topical antiseptic)
the electrode will be blind to it.
The angle formed by Articulare, Gonion and Menton
Darunavir (brand name Prezista, formerly known as TMC114) is a drug used to treat HIV infection.
It is in the protease inhibitor class.
Prezista is an OARAC recommended treatment option for treatment-naïve and treatment-experienced adults and adolescents.
Tosufloxacin is a broad spectrum fluoroquinolone antibiotic that is used to treat a variety of infections, including skin, respiratory, bone, joint and urinary tract infections.
However, it has been associated with serious adverse reactions including thrombocytopenia and thrombocytopenic purpura.
Veterinary medicine: Atypical porcine pestivirus (APPV) is a species in the genus pestivirus that is associated with congenital tremor (CT) in piglets.
CT can last several weeks to months and is associated with tremors that abate during sleep or inactivity.
APPV is indirectly associated with mortality because it can affect feeding and impair neurological responses.
It has been found in North America, South America, Europe, and Asia.
APPV RNA can be found in various specimens, but central nervous tissue consistently yields high viral loads.
The genus Juniperus is widely distributed in the Northern Hemisphere.
Mountain juniper is native to southwestern North America and is particularly common in Texas.
It is found in northeastern Mexico and in the United States only as far north and east as southern Missouri.
It colonises grasslands and becomes a pest.
Mountain juniper pollen causes asthma, hayfever and allergic conjunctivitis, in particular during winter months.
B-cell lymphoma/leukemia 10 is a protein that in humans is encoded by the BCL10 gene.
This gene was identified by its translocation in a case of mucosa-associated lymphoid tissue (MALT) lymphoma.
The protein encoded by this gene contains a caspase recruitment domain (CARD), and has been shown to induce apoptosis and to activate NF-kappaB.
This protein is reported to interact with other CARD domain containing proteins including CARD9, 10, 11 and 14, which are thought to function as upstream regulators in NF-kappaB signaling.
This protein is found to form a complex with MALT1, a protein encoded by another gene known to be translocated in MALT lymphoma.
MALT1 and this protein are thought to synergize in the activation of NF-kappaB, and the deregulation of either of them may contribute to the same pathogenetic process that leads to the malignancy.
Toluene diisocyanate (TDI) is an aromatic diisocyanate.
It is produced for reaction with polyols to form polyurethanes.
It exists in two isomers, 2,4-TDI (CAS: 584-84-9) and 2,6-TDI (CAS: 91-08-7).
2,4-TDI is produced in the pure state, but TDI is often marketed as 80/20 and 65/35 mixtures of the 2,4 and 2,6 isomers respectively.
The HNF1A gene (HNF1 homeobox A) is located on chromosome 12q24.2.
The protein encoded by this gene is a transcription factor required for the expression of several liver-specific genes.
The encoded protein functions as a homodimer and binds to the inverted palindrome 5'-GTTAATNATTAAC-3'.
Defects in this gene are a cause of maturity onset diabetes of the young type 3 (MODY3) and also can result in the appearance of hepatic adenomas.
Central Sleep Apnea (CSA) is a pattern of breathing characterized by deep inspiratory cycle interchanged with complete cessation of breathing.
It is caused by problems with how the brain controls breathing.
The Central apnea index (CAI) is calculated by dividing the number of events by the number of hours of sleep.
(CAI values are typically categorized as 5-15/hr = Mild; 15-30/hr = Moderate; and > 30/h = Severe.)
The PLCG2 (phospholipase C gamma 2) gene is located on chromosome 16 at position q23.3.
The protein encoded by this gene is a transmembrane signaling enzyme that catalyzes the conversion of 1-phosphatidyl-1D-myo-inositol 4,5-bisphosphate to 1D-myo-inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate (IP3) and diacylglycerol (DAG) using calcium as a cofactor.
IP3 and DAG are second messenger molecules important for transmitting signals from growth factor receptors and immune system receptors across the cell membrane.
Mutations in this gene have been found in autoinflammation, antibody deficiency, and immune dysregulation syndrome and familial cold autoinflammatory syndrome 3.
The THRB gene (thyroid hormone receptor, beta) is located on chromosome 3p24.2.
The protein encoded by this gene is a nuclear hormone receptor for triiodothyronine.
It is one of the several receptors for thyroid hormone, and has been shown to mediate the biological activities of thyroid hormone.
Knockout studies in mice suggest that the different receptors, while having certain extent of redundancy, may mediate different functions of thyroid hormone.
Mutations in this gene are known to be a cause of generalized thyroid hormone resistance (GTHR), a syndrome characterized by goiter and high levels of circulating thyroid hormone (T3-T4), with normal or slightly elevated thyroid stimulating hormone (TSH).
Several alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding the same protein have been observed for this gene.
The network of filaments, tubules, and interconnecting filamentous bridges which give shape, structure, and organization to the cytoplasm.
Prostaglandins are fatty acids derived from arachidonic acid metabolism.
They are closely related to the Thromboxanes and Leukotrienes.
Prostaglandin E2 is derived mainly from Prostaglandin H2, and is metabolized to Prostaglandin F2a, A2, and Dihydroketo Prostaglandin E2.
Prostaglandin E2 is excreted directly into the urine.
Prostaglandin E2 is a potent vasodilator and also a stimulus for Renin release.
Prostaglandin E2 release is stimulated by cholinergic and alpha adrenergic agents.
Prostaglandin E2 potentiates the actions of Histamine and Bradykinin causing pain and accumulation of edema fluid.
It relaxes the circular muscle of the gut in opposition to Prostaglandin F2a, and also relaxes the lower esophageal sphincter.
Prostaglandin E2 also causes accumulation of water and electrolytes in the lumen of the gut by stimulating their secretion.
Elevated levels of Prostaglandin E2 have been detected in patients with the Watery Diarrhea Syndrome, neural crest tumors, pheochromocytomas, and other amine-peptide-secreting tumors.
Prostaglandin E2 production and circulating levels are drastically suppressed by aspirin and indomethacin.
The EPM2A gene (epilepsy, progressive myoclonus type 2A, Lafora disease (laforin)) is located on chromosome 6q24.
This gene encodes a dual-specificity phosphatase that associates with polyribosomes.
The encoded protein may be involved in the regulation of glycogen metabolism.
Mutations in this gene have been associated with myoclonic epilepsy of Lafora.
Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants.
One of the FOLIC ACID ANTAGONISTS that is used as an antimalarial or with a sulfonamide to treat toxoplasmosis.
Carbohydrates consisting of between two (DISACCHARIDES) and ten MONOSACCHARIDES connected by either an alpha- or beta-glycosidic link.
They are found throughout nature in both the free and bound form.
An ester of AMPICILLIN which is readily hydrolysed on absorption to release ampicillin.
It is well absorbed from the gastrointestinal tract resulting in a greater bioavailability of ampicillin than can be achieved with equivalent doses of ampicillin.
Lactic acid (IUPAC systematic name:2-hydroxypropanoic acid), also known as milk acid, is a chemical compound that plays a role in several biochemical processes.
Lactic acid is a carboxylic acid (formula C 3 H 6 O 3) that has a hydroxyl group adjacent to the carboxyl group, making it an alpha hydroxy acid (AHA).
In solution, it can lose a proton from the acidic group, producing the lactate ion CH3 CH(OH)COOˆ'.
Lactic acid is chiral and has two optical isomers.
One is known as L-(+)-lactic acid or (S)-lactic acid and the other, its mirror image, is D-(-)-lactic acid or (R)-lactic acid.
L-(+)-Lactic acid is the biologically important isomer.
L-Lactate is produced from pyruvate via the enzyme lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) in a process of fermentation.
Lactate is constantly produced during normal metabolism and exercise but does not increase in concentration until the rate of lactate production exceeds the rate of lactate removal.
This is an abnormally sized red blood cell.
By definition it is 5 micrometers or smaller in diameter and is often associated with several forms of anemia.
IgA has two subclasses (IgA1 and IgA2) and can exist in a dimeric form called secretory IgA (sIgA).
In its secretory form, IgA is the main immunoglobulin found in mucous secretions, including tears, saliva, colostrum and secretions from the genitourinary tract, gastrointestinal tract, prostate and respiratory epithelium.
It is also found in small amounts in blood.
The secretory component of sIgA protects the immunoglobulin from being degraded by proteolytic enzymes, thus sIgA can survive in the harsh gastrointestinal tract environment and provide protection against microbes that multiply in body secretions.
Decreased or absent IgA, termed selective IgA deficiency, can be a clinically significant immunodeficiency.
Neisseria gonorrhœae (which causes gonorrhea), Streptococcus pneumoniae, and Haemophilus influenzae type B all releases a protease which destroys IgA. IgA nephropathy is caused by IgA deposits in the kidneys.
It is not yet known why IgA deposits occur in this chronic disease.
Some theories suggest an abnormality of the immune system results in these deposits.
Celiac disease involves IgA pathology due to the presence of IgA antiendomysial antibodies.
The serum-ascites albumin gradient (SAAG) is a calculation used in medicine to help determine the cause of ascites.
The SAAG may be a better discriminant than the older method of classifying ascites fluid as a transudate versus exudate.
The formula is as follows: SAAG = (albumin concentration of serum) - (albumin concentration of ascitic fluid).
Ideally, the two values should be measured at the same time.
A high gradient (> 1.1 g/dL) indicates the ascites is due to portal hypertension with 97% accuracy.
Important causes of high SAAG ascites include: 1) high protein (> 2.5) which can lead to heart failure, and 2) low protein (< 2.5) which can lead to cirrhosis of the liver (Budd Chiari syndrome).
A low gradient (< 1.1 g/dL) indicates causes of ascites not associated with increased portal pressure, including nephrotic syndrome, tuberculosis, and various types of cancer.
A synthetic mineralocorticoid with anti-inflammatory activity.
The inversion on chromosome 2 resulting in the fusion of genes EM4L and ALK is a chromosomal abnormality found in various histologic types of non-small-cell lung cancer (NSCLC).
The fusion encodes for the EML4-ALK protein, which promotes and maintains cancer cell growth.
The detection of EML4-ALK may be useful for predicting the potential response to ALK inhibitors as a therapeutic option for patients with lung cancer.
The VHL gene (von Hippel-Lindau tumor suppressor, E3 ubiquitin protein ligase) is located on chromosome 3p25.3.
Von Hippel-Lindau syndrome (VHL) is a dominantly inherited familial cancer syndrome predisposing to a variety of malignant and benign tumors.
A germline mutation of this gene is the basis of familial inheritance of VHL syndrome.
The protein encoded by this gene is a component of the protein complex that includes elongin B, elongin C, and cullin-2, and possesses ubiquitin ligase E3 activity.
This protein is involved in the ubiquitination and degradation of hypoxia-inducible-factor (HIF), which is a transcription factor that plays a central role in the regulation of gene expression by oxygen.
RNA polymerase II subunit POLR2G/RPB7 is also reported to be a target of this protein.
Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms have been observed.
The FBN1 gene (fibrillin 1) is located on chromosome 15q21.1.
This gene encodes a member of the fibrillin family.
The encoded protein is a large, extracellular matrix glycoprotein that serve as a structural component of 10-12 nm calcium-binding microfibrils.
These microfibrils provide force bearing structural support in elastic and nonelastic connective tissue throughout the body.
Mutations in this gene are associated with Marfan syndrome, isolated ectopia lentis, autosomal dominant Weill-Marchesani syndrome, MASS syndrome, and Shprintzen-Goldberg craniosynostosis syndrome.
Rhizopus arrhizus (Fisher) is a fungus of the family Mucoraceae, characterized by sporangiophores that arise from nodes at the point where the rhizoids are formed and by a hemispherical columella.
It is the most common cause of mucormycosis in humans and occasionally infects other animals.
The principal alkaloid of ipecac, from the ground roots of Uragoga (or Cephaelis) ipecacuanha or U. acuminata, of the Rubiaceae.
It is used as an amebicide in many different preparations and may cause serious cardiac, hepatic, or renal damage and violent diarrhea and vomiting.
Emetine inhibits protein synthesis in eucaryotic but not prokaryotic cells.
FOXP3 (forkhead box P3) also known as scurfin is a protein involved in immune system responses.
A member of the FOX protein family, FOXP3 appears to function as a master regulator in the development and function of regulatory T cells.
While the precise control mechanism has not yet been established, FOX proteins belong to the forkhead/winged-helix family of transcriptional regulators and are presumed to exert control via similar DNA binding interactions during transcription.
In human disease, alterations in numbers of regulatory T cells - and in particular those that express Foxp3 - are found in a number of disease states.
For example, patients with tumors have a local relative excess of Foxp3 positive T cells which inhibits the body's ability to suppress the formation of cancerous cells.
Conversely, patients with an autoimmune disease such as systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) have a relative dysfunction of Foxp3 positive cells.
The Foxp3 gene is also mutated in the X-linked IPEX syndrome (Immunodysregulation, Polyendocrinopathy, and Enteropathy, X-linked).
These mutations were in the forkhead domain of FOXP3, indicating that the mutations may disrupt critical DNA interactions.
Gestational Pemphigoid or Pemphigoid Gestationis (PG) is a dermatosis of pregnancy, being an autoimmune blistering skin disease that occurs during pregnancy, typically in the second or third trimester, and/or immediately following pregnancy.
It was originally called herpes gestationis because of the blistering appearance, although it is not associated with the herpes virus.
Peach, Prunus persica, is the fruit of a deciduous tree growing as high as 10 m and belonging to the subfamily Prunoideae of the family Rosaceae.
It is classified with the Almond in the subgenus Amygdalus, distinguished from the other subgenera by the corrugated seed shell.
The Peach is a tree native to China.
It was introduced to Persia and the Mediterranean region through the Silk Road in early historical times, probably by about 2000 BC.
Important historical Peach-producing areas are China, Japan, Iran, and the countries in the Mediterranean region; and more recently, the US, Canada, and Australia.
Peach is a well-documented and common cause of allergy in children and adults, resulting in oral allergy and systemic reactions such as urticaria, asthma and anaphylactic shock following the ingestion of the fresh or processed fruit.
This is particularly the case in the Mediterranean area, where Peach is regarded as a major allergen.
Peach has also been described as the primary cause of food anaphylaxis in Israel.
In Japan, Peach has been reported to be a frequent cause of oral allergy syndrome (OAS).
Giles et al., in 1970, identified the antithetical antibody, anti-Cob, and the blood group system was established.
Co^a is present on the red cells in 99.9 % of most populations, with a slightly lower incidence in Northern Europeans.
Alternatively, Co^b is present in 8 to 10 % of Northern Europeans with much lower incidence in other populations.
Iclaprim, codenamed AR-100 and RO-48-2622, is a diaminopyrimidine dihydrofolate reductase inhibitor being developed for the treatment of complicated skin and soft tissue infections caused by antibiotic-resistant bacteria.
It is structurally related to trimethoprim.
In Phase III clinical trials, intravenously-administered iclaprim was found to be as effective as and better tolerated than linezolid in people with skin and soft tissue infections, many caused by methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA).
In vitro, iclaprim is highly active against MRSA, vancomycin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (VRSA), strains of Streptococcus pneumoniae resistant to several common antibiotics, and some Gram-negative bacteria.
A new drug application for iclaprim was filed with the U.S. Food and Drug Administration in March 2008, and a marketing authorisation application (MAA) was accepted by the European Medicines Agency on August 21, 2008.
Phase II clinical trials are being conducted to assess whether iclaprim can be taken by mouth as well as intravenously and whether it is effective for the treatment of hospital-acquired pneumonia.
Iclaprim has been granted fast track status by the FDA
Endoxifen, a secondary metabolite of Tamoxifen
At least 19 mutations in the ACAD8 gene are known to cause isobutyryl-CoA dehydrogenase (IBD) deficiency.
Some of these mutations reduce the activity of the IBD enzyme, while other mutations prevent the gene from producing any functional enzyme.
As a result, valine is not broken down properly.
An inability to process valine is thought to lead to reduced energy production and the features of IBD deficiency.
The amount of urine output from a nephrostomy, which is a small tube inserted through the skin directly into a kidney.
The nephrostomy tube drains urine from the kidney into an external drainage pouch.
Beryllium is the chemical element in the periodic table that has the symbol Be and atomic number 4.
A bivalent element, beryllium is a steel grey, strong, light-weight yet brittle, alkaline earth metal, that is primarily used as a hardening agent in alloys (most notably beryllium copper).
'Anticomplementary activity' (AA) can interfere with complement fixation tests because it results in the activation of complement in the absence of the antibody-antigen complex that is being tested for.
Anticomplementary activity is usually caused by complement-activating factors in patient sera including immune complexes and contaminating substances such as endotoxin.
Testing for AA is critical to exclude the possibility of such non-specific anticomplement activity .
The blood group 8 (BG8) antigen is used in immune stains to identify pulmonary adenocarcinoma (PACA) or thymic carcinoma and to exclude epithelioid mesotheloma (EM).
La Crosse encephalitis is an encephalitis caused by an arbovirus (the La Crosse virus) which has a mosquito vector (Ochlerotatus triseriatus synonym Aedes triseriatus).
Historically, most cases of LAC encephalitis occur in the upper Midwestern states (Minnesota, Wisconsin, Iowa, Illinois, Indiana, and Ohio).
Recently, more cases are being reported from states in the mid-Atlantic (West Virginia, Virginia and North Carolina) and southeastern (Alabama and Mississippi) regions of the country.
Pyridoxine is one of the compounds called vitamin B6, along with pyridoxal and pyridoxamine.
Pyridoxine regulates the sodium and potassium levels and promoties red blood cell production.
It also lowers the formation of homocysteine.
Pyridoxine might help children with learning difficulties, prevent dandruff, eczema, and psoriasis and may also help balance hormonal changes in women.
Lack of pyridoxine may cause anemia, nerve damage, seizures, skin problems, and mouth sores.
Its stucture comprises a pyridine ring, with hydroxyl, methyl, and hydroxymethyl radical groups.
It differs from pyridoxamine by a substitution at the '4' position and it is often used as 'pyridoxine hydrochloride'.
It is converted to the biologically active form pyridoxal 5-phosphate.
2-Hydroxyadipic acid is a hydroxy-dicarboxylic acid formed by the reduction of 2-ketoadipic acid.
Deficiency of 2-ketoadipic dehydrogenase causes 2-ketoadipic acidemia, a condition characterized by accumulation and excretion of 2-hydroxyadipic acid with seemingly no negative phenotypic effects.
The identification of tetrahydrogestrinone (THG), the first true "designer androgen," as a sports doping agent reflects both an alarmingly sophisticated illicit manufacturing facility and an underground network of androgen abusers in elite sports, as well as the still untapped potential for designer androgens in medicine.
Never marketed, THG was apparently developed as a potent androgen that was undetectable by conventional International Olympic Committee-mandated urinary sports doping tests.
As a potent androgen and progestin with unspecified contaminants, its distribution for use at high doses without any prior biological or toxicological evaluation poses significant health risks.
Yet this diversion of science also highlights the prospect of designer androgens for use in human medicine.
Designer androgens also offer the possibility of tissue-specific effects enhancing the beneficial effects of androgens while mitigating the undesirable ones.
Further developments require better understanding of the post receptor tissue selectivity of androgens, comparable to the mechanism underlying that of partial estrogen agonists (SERMs).
This experience highlights the ongoing need for vigilance to detect novel drug doping strategies in order to maintain fairness and safety in elite sports.
This will require the deployment of generic catch-all tests, such as sensitive and specific in vitro androgen bioassays, coupled with the development of mass spectrometry-based tests for specific doping agents.
Starting from gestrinone, chemists can synthesize THG in one reaction step. ,
Hemoglobin G Philadelphia (HbG Phil) is a structural variant of the hemoglobin molecule that involves the alpha chain rather than the beta chain.
It has a frequency of about 1 in 5,000 African Americans, but has been reported in other ethnic groups in the Mediterranean region as well, HbG Phil itself has no clinical consequences.
The only finding of clinical interest is the mild microcytosis.
While this molecule has no clinical consequences, the presence helps to distinguish HbG from HbD that shares its electrophoretic migration on HPLC and gel electrophoresis and which does have consequences when it occurs with sickle trait.
Bivalirudin (trade names Angiomax or Angiox) is a specific and reversible direct thrombin inhibitor (DTI).
It inhibits both circulating and clot-bound thrombin, while also inhibiting thrombin-mediated platelet activation and aggregation.
Bivalirudin has a quick onset of action and a short half-life.
Clinical studies demonstrated bivalirudin can be used to treat patients with stable angina, unstable angina (UA), non-ST segment elevation myocardial infarction (NSTEMI), and ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction (STEMI) undergoing PCI.
One of several basic proteins released from EOSINOPHIL cytoplasmic granules.
Eosinophil cationic protein is a 21-kDa cytotoxic peptide with a pI of 10.9.
Although eosinophil cationic protein is considered a member of the RNAse A superfamily of proteins, it has only limited RNAse activity.
Dodecenoylcarnitine is a primary marker for Very long-chain acyl-CoA dehydrogenase deficiency.
Secondary marker for Carnitine acylcarnitine translocase deficiency, and Carnitine palmitoyltransferase II deficiency.
Morphine-3-glucuronide is a metabolite of morphine produced by UGT2B7.
It is not active as an opioid agonist, but does have some action as a convulsant, which does not appear to be mediated through opioid receptors; it is mediated by GABA/glycinergic system.
As a polar compound, it has a limited ability to cross the blood-brain barrier, but renal failure may lead to its accumulation and result in seizures.
Probenecid and inhibitors of P-glycoprotein can enhance uptake of morphine-3-glucuronide and, to a lesser extent, morphine-6-glucuronide.
The body uses sodium to control blood pressure and blood volume, and for muscle and nerve function.
Sodium occurs naturally in most foods.
The most common form of sodium is sodium chloride--table salt.
Milk, beets, and celery also naturally contain sodium.
Drinking water also contains sodium, but the amount depends on the source.
Sodium is also added to many food products, such as, monosodium glutamate (MSG), sodium nitrite, sodium saccharin, baking soda (sodium bicarbonate), and sodium benzoate.
These are in items such as Worcestershire sauce, soy sauce, onion salt, garlic salt, and bouillon cubes.
Processed meats like bacon, sausage, and ham, and canned soups and vegetables also contain added sodium.
Fast foods are generally very high in sodium.
Too much sodium in the diet may lead to high blood pressure in some people or a serious buildup of fluid in people with congestive heart failure, cirrhosis of the liver, or kidney disease.
Organic compounds that generally contain an amino (-NH2) and a carboxyl (-COOH) group.
Twenty alpha-amino acids are the subunits which are polymerized to form proteins.
Carbapenem resistant enterobacteriaceae (CRE), are a family of gram-negative bacteria that are difficult to treat because they have high levels of resistance to antibiotics.
Klebsiella sp. and Escherichia coli (E. coli) are examples of enterobacteriaceae, a normal part of the human intestinal flora, that can become carbapenem resistant.
Types of CRE are sometimes known as KPC (Klebsiella pneumoniae carbapenemase) and NDM (New Delhi Metallo-beta-lactamase).
People that are healthy usually do not get CRE infections.
A muscarinic antagonist that has effects in both the central and peripheral nervous systems.
It has been used in the treatment of arteriosclerotic, idiopathic, and postencephalitic parkinsonism.
It has also been used to alleviate extrapyramidal symptoms induced by phenothiazine derivatives and reserpine.
Human monocytic ehrlichiosis is a tick-borne disease caused by rickettsial-like agents.
It is often referred to as "spotless" or rashless Rocky Mountain spotted fever and has been reported in various regions of the United States.
While the presence of IgM antibodies suggests current or recent infection, low levels of IgM antibodies may occasionally persists for more than 12 months post-infection.
Erythropoiesis is the process by which red blood cells (erythrocytes) are produced in bone marrow.
It is stimulated by decreased O2 in circulation, leading to secretion of the hormone erythropoietin by the kidneys.
This hormone stimulates proliferation and differentiation of red cell precursors, which activates increased erythropoiesis in the hemopoietic tissues and ultimately producing red blood cells.
In certain diseases, erythropoiesis also occurs outside the bone marrow, e.g. within the spleen or liver, and is known as extramedullary erythropoiesis.
Individuals with anemia have abnormally low levels of red blood cells whereas those with polycythemia have abnormally high levels of red blood cells.
Isopropyl methylphosphonate (GB acid) a metabolite of the chemical warfare nerve agent Sarin (aka GB).
Sarin is not found naturally in the environment, and is a human-made chemical warfare agent classified as a nerve agent.
Nerve agents are the most toxic and rapidly acting of the known chemical warfare agents.
They are similar to certain kinds of pesticide organophosphates in terms of how they work and what kind of harmful effects they cause, but much more potent.
Sarin is a clear, colorless, and tasteless liquid that has no odor in its pure form.
However, sarin can evaporate into a vapor (gas) and spread into the environment.
Mildly exposed people usually recover completely.
Severely exposed people are less likely to survive.
Intercellular substance (ICS) antibodies are antibodies to any one of several intercellular antigens, including the desmosomal cadherins desmoglein 1 and 3, and desmocollin 1, 2, and 3, which play a role in cell to cell adhesion.
ICS antibodies, especially of type IgG, are associated with paraneoplastic pemphigus (PNP), also known as paraneoplastic autoimmune multiorgan syndrome (PAMS), as well as with other forms of pemphigus including pemphigus foliaceus and pemphigus vulgaris.
ICS antibody deposition has a characteristic web- or honeycomb-like fluorescent pattern.
A homolog of ERGONOVINE containing one more CH2 group.
An enzyme that catalyzes the conversion of an orthophosphoric monoester and water to an alcohol and orthophosphate. .
Carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA) is a glycoprotein involved in cell adhesion.
It is normally produced during fetal development and stops before birth.
Therefore, it is not usually present in the blood of healthy adults, although levels are raised in heavy smokers.
CEA was first identified in 1965 by Phil Gold and Samuel O. Freedman in human colon cancer tissue extracts.
Serum from individuals with colorectal and other carcinomas had higher levels of CEA than healthy individuals.
CEA and related genes make up the CEA family belonging to the immunoglobulin superfamily.
In humans, CEA family consists of 29 genes, 18 of which are normally expressed.
Amiben (Chloramben) is a selective herbicide used to control the seedlings of broadleaf weeds and annual grasses.
It is mostly used for soybeans, but also for dry beans, peanuts, sunflowers, peppers, cotton, sweet potatoes, squash, hardwood trees, shrubs, and some conifers.
Hexachlorobutadiene, Cl2C=C(Cl)C(Cl)=CCl2, is a colorless liquid at room temperature that has an odor similar to that of turpentine.
It is a chlorinated aliphatic diene with niche applications but is most commonly used as a solvent for other chlorine-containing compounds.
The NRAS gene (neuroblastoma RAS viral (v-ras) oncogene homolog) is located on chromosome 1p13.2.
This is an N-ras oncogene encoding a membrane protein that shuttles between the Golgi apparatus and the plasma membrane.
This shuttling is regulated through palmitoylation and depalmitoylation by the ZDHHC9-GOLGA7 complex.
The encoded protein, which has intrinsic GTPase activity, is activated by a guanine nucleotide-exchange factor and inactivated by a GTPase activating protein.
Mutations in this gene have been associated with somatic rectal cancer, follicular thyroid cancer, autoimmune lymphoproliferative syndrome, Noonan syndrome, and juvenile myelomonocytic leukemia.
Antithrombin and antithrombin III refer to the same thing but today, however, antithrombin is the correct name.
Antithrombin is a small glycoprotien, produced in the liver that inactivates several enzymes of the coagulation system including thrombin as well as factors Xa, IXa, XIa, XIIa, and kallikrein.
Heparan sulfate (heparin), located on endothelial cells, binds to antithrombin causing a conformational change that results in its activation.
Antithrombin deficiency is present in 0.17% of the general population.
It accounts for 1.1% of unselected patients with venous thrombosis and up to 5% of patients younger than 70 years with thrombosis.
Over 127 mutations in the antithrombin gene are known to cause hereditary antithrombin deficiency.
Individuals heterozygous for antithrombin deficiency have a fivefold increased risk for venous thrombosis.
Homozygous deficiencies are usually fatal.
Vitamin K antagonist therapy causes a decrease in the active forms of coagulation factors II, VII, IX, and X, with a concomitant increase in non-functional forms of these factors.
These non-functional proteins are called "proteins induced by vitamin K absence/antagonism", or PIVKA, and can act as competetive inhibitors of thromboplastin, depending on the source.
Human recombinant and bovine thromboplastins are sensitive to PIVKA, while rabbit thromboplastin is not.
Prothrombin time (PT) assays that use PIVKA-sensitive thromboplastin are considered to be more sensitive to factor II, VII and X deficiencies compared to standard PT assays.
A disaccharide of GLUCOSE and GALACTOSE in human and cow milk.
It is used in pharmacy for tablets, in medicine as a nutrient, and in industry.
Human papilloma virus (HPV) is a double-stranded DNA virus that includes 120 types that infect cutaneous and mucosal epithelial cells.
The HPV that infect the cervix are categorized as low or high risk depending upon their carcinogenicity.
High risk HPV types can lead to low-grade cervical cell abnormalities, pre-cancerous cellular abnormalities and anogenital cancer.
Type 16 is a high risk HPV and is implicated in roughly 50% of cervical cancers around the world.
E6/E7 genes in cervical tumors interfere with the control of cell proliferation and cell division and can be used for targeted anti-cancer therapy.
The Paper Mulberry (Broussonetia papyrifera, syn. Morus papyrifera L.) is a tree in the family Moraceae, native to eastern Asia.
Other names include Halibun, Kalivon, Kozo, and Tapacloth tree.
Ethambutol is a bacteriostatic antimycobacterial drug prescribed to treat tuberculosis (Mycobacterium tuberculosis).
It is usually given in combination with other tuberculosis drugs.
It is sold under the name Myambutol.
Bacteriostatic against actively growing TB bacilli, it inhibits RNA synthesis and bacterial growth.
Carboxyhemoglobin, a complex of hemoglobin and carbon monoxide, is a marker of exposure to inhaled carbon monoxide (CO).
CO gas is produced from almost any fire as the result of incomplete combustion to CO2, and the normal individual will have about 1 or 2 % of their hemoglobin in the form of carboxyhemoglobin, and up to 5% depending on environmental circumstances.
Smokers can have levels as high as 10% or even higher.
Poisoning with CO generally results from improperly vented furnaces, automobile exhaust, and fires, with carboxyhemoglobin:hemoglobin ratios of 10-30% found in symptomatic individuals and 30-90% in fatalities.
With a 230 fold greater affinity, inhaled CO avidly replaces oxygen at its hemoglobin binding site.
In addition, replacing even one of the 4 sites of the hemoglobin tetramer with CO prevents dissociation of the remaining 3 oxygen moieties to tissue (known as left shift of O2 dissociation curve).
As a result, hemoglobin remains red and skin color is rosy despite physiologic anoxia.
Although measuring carboxyhemoglobin can confirm carbon monoxide poisoning, the level does not always correlate with the clinical picture; carbon monoxide poisoning involves other mechanisms as well, including binding to myoglobin, cytochrome oxidase, and direct effects on the central nervous system.
Oral clonidine stimulates growth hormone secretion, and a clonidine stimulation test is used to evaluate growth hormone deficiency.
Clonidine is administered in the morning after an overnight fast, and blood samples are collected at predefined intervals.
Different protocols use different cutoffs for the normal peak growth hormone level, with values varying from 6.8 to 10 micrograms per liter.
Growth hormone stimulation tests can use a variety of challenges including clonidine, arginine, and glucagon.
The bed state is an indicator of whether the infant's incubator is closed, partially open, or open, meaning the top is raised.
A lymphocyte is a type of white blood cell involved in the human body's immune system.
There are two broad categories of lymphocytes, namely the large granular lymphocytes and the small lymphocytes.
The large granular lymphocytes are more commonly known as the natural killer cells (NK cells).
The small lymphocytes are the T cells and B cells.
Lymphocytes play an important and integral part of the body's defenses.
The NK cells are a part of the cell-mediated immunity.
They can attack the host's cells that express a foreign peptide on their MHC class I surface proteins.
Furthermore, the NK cells do not require activation in order to perform their cytotoxicity upon target cells.
T cells are chiefly responsible for cell-mediated immunity whereas B cells are primarily responsible for humoral immunity (relating to antibodies).
Walleye (Sander vitreus, formerly Stizostedion vitreum) is a freshwater perciform fish native to most of Canada and to the northern United States.
It is a North American close relative of the European pikeperch.
The walleye is sometimes also called the yellow walleye to distinguish it from the blue walleye, which is an extinct subspecies formerly found in the southern Great Lakes.
Fusarium is a genus of filamentous fungi widely distributed in soil and an important plant pathogen.
In humans, certain Fusarium species can cause mycotoxicosis if it enters the food chain, and and also cause disease that is localized (such as onychomycosis), focally invasive or disseminated, with the latter occurring in immunocompromised patients.
Invasive fusariosis primarily affects patients with hematologic malignancies, hematopoietic cell transplant recipients, patients with juvenile idiopathic arthritis and third degree burns.
Alanine is a non-essential amino acid that exists as two distinct enantiomers: L-alanine and D-alanine.
Alanine is one of the primary amino acids (secondary to leucine) used for protein construction.
It is produced from pyruvate, exists in high levels in plasma, and is involved in the metabolism of sugar and organic acids.
Alanine acts as a substrate for alanine aminotransferase (ALT), an enzyme commonly measured to determine liver health.
Increased alanine levels are seen in patients with lactic acidosis, carbamoyl phosphate synthetase deficiency, histidinemia, hyperprolinemia, and ornithine transcarbamylase deficiency.
In patients with a mitochondrial disease, elevated alanine levels are primarily seen during times of physiologic stress or regression.
Benzene, also known as benzol, is an organic chemical compound with the formula C 6 H 6.
It is sometimes abbreviated Ph H. Benzene is a colorless and flammable liquid with a sweet smell and a relatively high melting point.
It is carcinogenic and its use as additive in gasoline is now limited, but it is an important industrial solvent and precursor in the production of drugs, plastics, synthetic rubber, and dyes.
Benzene is a natural constituent of crude oil, but it is usually synthesized from other compounds present in petroleum.
Benzene is an aromatic hydrocarbon and the second -annulene (-annulene).
The causative agent of PHF is Neorickettsia risticii (formerly Ehrlichia risticii), an intracellular rickettsial bacterium
A pyrazine compound inhibiting SODIUM reabsorption through SODIUM CHANNELS in renal EPITHELIAL CELLS.
This inhibition creates a negative potential in the luminal membranes of principal cells, located in the distal convoluted tubule and collecting duct.
Negative potential reduces secretion of potassium and hydrogen ions.
Amiloride is used in conjunction with DIURETICS to spare POTASSIUM loss.
(From Gilman et al., Goodman and Gilman's The Pharmacological Basis of Therapeutics, 9th ed, p705)
The posterior- superior angle between the long axis of the mandibular central incisor and the mandibular plane (Gonion to Menton)
Chlamydophila is a bacterial genus belonging to the family Chlamydiaceae, order Chlamydiales, class/phylum Chlamydiae.
Species of Chlamydophila include: Chlamydophila pneumoniae, Chlamydophila pecorum, Chlamydophila felis, Chlamydophila psittaci, Chlamydophila abortus, Chlamydophila caviae
A beta-lactamase inhibitor with very weak antibacterial action.
The compound prevents antibiotic destruction of beta-lactam antibiotics by inhibiting beta-lactamases, thus extending their spectrum activity.
Combinations of sulbactam with beta-lactam antibiotics have been used successfully for the therapy of infections caused by organisms resistant to the antibiotic alone.
Tahyna virus is a species in the genus Orthobunyavirus, which also includes species such as California encephalitis virus, La Crosse virus, and Snowshoe hare virus.
Tahyna virus is a mosquito-borne virus that has been known to be present in both Europe and Asia.
It typically causes flu-like illness in humans in the late spring and early summer, and rarely is associated with atypical pneumonia and viral meningitis.
Animal hosts include rabbits, wild boar, and red deer.
A tricyclic antidepressant with some tranquilizing action.
A peptide of about 22-amino acids isolated from the DUODENUM.
At low pH it inhibits gastric motor activity, whereas at high pH it has a stimulating effect.
Oleic acid is a mono-unsaturated omega-9 fatty acid found in various animal and vegetable sources.
It has the formula CH3(CH2)7CH=CH(CH2)7COOH.
The trans-isomer of oleic acid is called elaidic acid.
Oleic acid may hinder the progression of ALD, or adrenoleukodystrophy, a fatal disease that affects the brain and adrenal glands.
Oleic acid may help boost memory.
Oleic and monounsaturated fatty acid levels in the membranes of red blood cells have been associated with increased risk of breast cancer.
Oleic acid may be responsible for the hypotensive (blood pressure reducing) effects of olive oil.
Deoxycorticosterone (DOC) is a precursor of corticosterone and aldosterone.
The elevations of DOC observed in patients with 11-hydroxylase deficiency (the second leading cause of congenital adrenal hyperplasia) may reflect the hypertension observed.
Patients with DOC-secreting tumors also exhibit hypertension.
West Nile virus Kunjin strain is a mosquito-borne virus that affects humans and horses and is one of the two etiologic agents of human arboviral encephalitis in Australia (the second is Murray Valley encephalitis virus).
Human West Nile Kunjin infections are primarily asymptomatic, and cases of encephalitis mainly existed in northwestern Australia until 2011.
In 2011, extensive flooding in Eastern Australia provided ideal conditions for mosquito breeding, which led to a major outbreak of equine encephalitis.
The responsible agent was West Nile virus New South Wales 2011 (WNV NSW2011), a virulent strain of West Nile Kunjin that resulted in 10-15% mortality of infected horses.
Since 2011, symptomatic West Nile Kunjin human infections have increased on the southeastern side of Australia, close to major urban areas on the eastern seaboard of New South Wales, but equine cases still far outnumber human cases.
A species of gram-negative bacteria causing MASTITIS; ARTHRITIS; and RESPIRATORY TRACT DISEASES in CATTLE.
CD30 is immunophenotypic marker useful for the detection of activated cells and anaplastic large cell lymphoma.
Ebola is the virus Ebolavirus (EBOV), a viral genus, and the disease Ebola hemorrhagic fever (EHF), a viral hemorrhagic fever (VHF).
The virus interferes with the endothelial cells lining the interior surface of blood vessels and with coagulation.
As the blood vessel walls become damaged and destroyed, the platelets are unable to coagulate, patients succumb to hypovolemic shock.
Ebola is transmitted through bodily fluids, while conjunctiva exposure may also lead to transmission.
There are five recognized species within the ebolavirus genus, which have a number of specific strains.
The Zaire virus is the type species, which is also the first discovered and the most lethal.
Electron micrographs show long filaments, characteristic of the Filoviridae viral family.
The age of the conceptus, beginning from the time of fertilization.
In clinical obstetrics, the gestational age is often estimated as the time from the last day of the last menstruation which is about 2 weeks before ovulation and fertilization.
An adrenergic beta-antagonist that is used in the treatment of life-threatening arrhythmias.
Tazobactam is a compound which inhibits the action of bacterial beta-lactamases.
It is added to the extended spectrum beta-lactam antibiotic piperacillin to produce Tazocin® or Zosyn®.
It broadens the spectrum of piperacillin by making it effective against organisms that express beta-lactamase and would normally degrade piperacillin.
Tazobactam sodium is a derivative of the penicillin nucleus and is a penicillanic acid sulfone.
Activated protein C resistance (APC) has emerged as the most frequent abnormality in patients with idiopathic thrombosis.
Patients found to be heterozygous for APC resistence have a seven fold increased risk for venous thrombosis as compared to the general popualtion.
Homozygous individuals have an eight fold increased risk of thrombosis.
Familial studies and counselling should be considered for positive patients.
The activated form of Factor V (Factor Va) is more slowly degraded by activated protein C. Factor V Leiden mutation (R506Q) is the most common cause of APC resistance.
Often measured as the ratio of the Appt W APC.
5-Hydroxymethyl-2-Furoate (Sumiki's acid) is a naturally occurring human metabolite.
Sumiki's acid was first identified in the urine of a leukemic patient who was excreting an abnormal amount of its glycine derivative.
Sumiki's acid was found to be excreted by normal subjects after a Phenylalanine loading, while heterozygotes for phenylketonuria don't excrete it (instead, they excrete 2-Hydroxybenzeneacetic acid).
Leflunomide is a disease-modifying antirheumatic drug (DMARD) used alone or in combination with other medications to treat rheumatoid arthritis.
It is a pyrimidine synthesis inhibitor.
Found on Activated T-cells.
Associated with Hairy cell leukemia and some splenic lymphomas
The HRAS gene (Harvey rat sarcoma viral oncogene homolog) is located on chromosome 11p15.5.
This gene belongs to the Ras oncogene family, whose members are related to the transforming genes of mammalian sarcoma retroviruses.
The products encoded by these genes function in signal transduction pathways.
These proteins can bind GTP and GDP, and they have intrinsic GTPase activity.
This protein undergoes a continuous cycle of de- and re-palmitoylation, which regulates its rapid exchange between the plasma membrane and the Golgi apparatus.
Mutations in this gene cause Costello syndrome, a disease characterized by increased growth at the prenatal stage, growth deficiency at the postnatal stage, predisposition to tumor formation, mental retardation, skin and musculoskeletal abnormalities, distinctive facial appearance and cardiovascular abnormalities.
Defects in this gene are implicated in a variety of cancers, including bladder cancer, follicular thyroid cancer, and oral squamous cell carcinoma.
Multiple transcript variants, which encode different isoforms, have been identified for this gene.
Propofol (marketed as Diprivan by Fresenius Kabi) is a short-acting, intravenously administered hypnotic/amnestic agent.
Its uses include the induction and maintenance of general anesthesia, sedation for mechanically ventilated adults, and procedural sedation.
Propofol is also commonly used in veterinary medicine.
It is approved for use in more than 50 countries, and generic versions are available.
Chemically, propofol is not related to barbiturates and has largely replaced sodium thiopental (Pentothal) for induction of anesthesia because recovery from propofol is more rapid and "clear" when compared with thiopental.
Propofol is not considered an analgesic, so opioids such as fentanyl may be combined with propofol to alleviate pain.
Propofol has been referred to as milk of amnesia (a play on words of milk of magnesia), because of the milk-like appearance of its intravenous preparation.
It is on the WHO Model List of Essential Medicines, the most important medications needed in a health system.
Tests for von Willebrand's disease and Fx1 deficiency which are releatively common coagulation disorders that may be overlooked in menorrhagia (heavy menstrual bleeding)
An amino acid produced in the urea cycle when the enzyme arginase cleaves off urea from arginine.
Regulatory T-cells (Tregs) are a subset of CD4+ T-cells that provide protection from excess inflammation and tissue damage that would result from untethered immune responses directed against self, dietary, or environmental antigens.
Tregs are characterized and dependent upon the expression of lineage-specific transcription factor Foxp3 and high levels of interleukin-2 (IL2) receptor alpha-chain (CD25).
Tregs require the expression of CD25 for their differentiation and proliferative fitness and are dependent on IL2 signaling for their maintenance.
Tregs suppress immune-mediated inflammation that is associated with autoimmune and auto-inflammatory disorders, allergies, acute and chronic infections, and cancer.
Associations of Tregs with disease has prompted investigations into the manipulation of Tregs for therapeutic purposes.
Yersinia enterocolitica is a species of gram-negative coccobacillus-shaped bacterium, belonging to the family Enterobacteriaceae.
Primarily a zoonotic disease (cattle, deer, pigs, and birds), animals which recover frequently become asymptomatic carriers of the disease.
Yersinia enterocolitica is a heterogeneous group of strains, classified into 6 biogroups, and into more than 57 O serogroups.
The human pathogenic strains most frequently isolated worldwide belong to serogroups O:3, O:5,27, O:8 and O:9.
The major route of Y. enterocolitica infection is through contaminated foods or causing gastrointestinal infections which are usually self-limiting.
Rosamicin is a new antibacterial substance chemically a lipid soluble basic macrolide similar to erythromycin but with a better activity against Gram-negative bacteria.
Experiments in dogs have shown that it is more concentrated in the prostate than erythromycin is, and thus may be better for treating infections of that organ.
A mitosporic Onygenales fungal genus causing HISTOPLASMOSIS in humans and animals.
Its single species is Histoplasma capsulatum which has two varieties: H. capsulatum var.
capsulatum and H. capsulatum var.
Its teleomorph is AJELLOMYCES capsulatus.
The asialoglycoprotein receptors are lectins which bind asialoglycoprotein, glycoproteins from which a sialic acid has been removed to expose galactose residues.
The receptors, which are located on liver cells, remove the target glycoproteins from circulation.
The PLOD1 gene (procollagen-lysine, 2-oxoglutarate 5-dioxygenase 1) is located on chromosome 1p36.22.
Lysyl hydroxylase is a membrane-bound homodimeric protein localized to the cisternae of the endoplasmic reticulum.
The enzyme (cofactors iron and ascorbate) catalyzes the hydroxylation of lysyl residues in collagen-like peptides.
The resultant hydroxylysyl groups are attachment sites for carbohydrates in collagen and thus are critical for the stability of intermolecular crosslinks.
Some patients with Ehlers-Danlos syndrome type VI have deficiencies in lysyl hydroxylase activity.
Chromosome region 4q25 g.111720761T>G (rs10033464) is one of the single nucleotide polymorphisms on chromosome region 4q25 that is associated with atrial fibrillation (AF).
It is associated with recurrence of atrial arrhythmias after catheter ablation of AF as well as increased risk of cardioembolic stroke.
This variant, along with rs2200733, is located near the PITX2 gene and is thought to play a role in regulation of PITX2 expression.
The I233V mutation is associated with Entecavir resistance
Chloramphenicol is a bacteriostatic antibiotic originally derived from the bacterium Streptomyces venezuelae, isolated by David Gottlieb, and introduced into clinical practice in 1949.
It was the first antibiotic to be manufactured synthetically on a large scale.
Chloramphenicol is effective against a wide variety of microorganisms; it is still very widely used in developing countries because of its low cost.
In developed countries, however, it has fallen out of favor because of a rare side effect, aplastic anemia, which is uniformly fatal.
Its main use now is in eye drops or ointment for bacterial conjunctivitis.
Temazepam (marketed under brand names Restoril ®, Normison ®, Tenox ® and Temaze ®) is a powerful hypnotic drug, which is a benzodiazepine derivative.
It possesses powerful anxiolytic, anticonvulsant, amnestic, sedative and skeletal muscle relaxant properties.
Lactic acid, also known as milk acid, is a chemical compound that plays a role in various biochemical processes.
It is a carboxylic acid (chemical formula C3H6O3) and is chiral with two optical isomers: L-(+)-lactic acid or (S)-lactic acid and D-(−)-lactic acid or (R)-lactic acid.
In animals, L-lactate is constantly produced from pyruvate via the enzyme lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) in a process of fermentation during normal metabolism and exercise.
It does not increase in concentration until the rate of lactate production exceeds the rate of lactate removal, which is governed by a number of factors, including monocarboxylate transporters, concentration and isoform of LDH, and oxidative capacity of tissues.
The concentration of blood lactate is usually 1-2 mmol/L at rest, but can rise to over 20 mmol/L during intense exertion.
Progressive motility (PR) are spermatozoa moving actively, either linearly or in a large circle, regardless of speed.
(WHO laboratory manual for the Examination and processing of human semen FIFTH EDITION)
Uracil is a common and naturally occurring pyrimidine derivative.
It is a planar, unsaturated compound that has the ability to absorb light.
Uracil's use in the body is to help carry out the synthesis of many enzymes necessary for cell function through bonding with riboses and phosphates.
Uracil serves as allosteric regulator and coenzyme for reactions in the human body and in plants.
UMP controls the activity of carbamoyl phosphate synthetase and aspartate transcarbamoylase in plants, while UDP and UTP requlate CPSase II activity in animals.
UDP-glucose regulates the conversion of glucose to galactose in the liver and other tissues in the process of carbohydrate metabolism.
Uracil is also involved in the biosynthesis of polysaccharides and the transportation of sugars containing aldehydes.
It can also increase the risk for cancer in cases in which the body is extremely deficient in folate.
The deficiency in folate leads to increased ratio of deoxyuracilmonophosphates (dUMP)/deoxythyminemonophosphates (dTMP) and uracil misincorporation into DNA and eventually low production of DNA.
Soluble fms-like tyrosine kinase-1 (sFlt-1 or sVEGFR-1) is a tyrosine kinase protein that disables proteins that cause blood vessel growth.
Soluble Flt-1 (sFlt-1) is a splice variant of VEGF receptor 1 (Flt-1) which is produced by a variety of tissues.1 These proteins act as a receptor of vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF), a potent angiogenic growth factor.
Serum levels of sFlt-1 are altered in women with preeclampsia.
Agents that promote the excretion of urine through their effects on kidney function.
The botanical family Willow (Salicaceae) consists of Populus and Salix, the latter being true Willows.
Populus deltoides is the common designation for Populus species of trees in this genus, but it can be divided into 3 distinct groups: Aspens, Cottonwoods and Poplars.
A tree species producing pollen, which often induces hayfever, asthma, and conjunctivitis in sensitized individuals.
Cottonwood, native to North America, is dioecious (having separate sexes); that is, each tree is either male or female, not both.
The genus Populus contains about 30 species in North America, Europe, North Africa and temperate Asia.
Cottonwood flowers in early spring, with time of pollen production, depending on region.
Populus species are entirely wind pollinated, as distinct from Willows, which are primarily insect-pollinated.
Glycoprotein I (gI) has a 130,000 molecular weight and is one of the major constituents of the envelope of pseudorabies virus (PRV) strain Phylaxia.
Although gI is one of the major immunogens in vaccinated and/or virus-infected animals, one study showed that viruses resistant to anti-gI antibodies occur spontaneously in vivo and in vitro, therefore using gI as a subunit vaccine would not be beneficial..
Instead, since the majority of PrV vaccines now contain attenuated gI-deleted PRV and all tested isolates of PrV from field infected animals contain the gI protein, the presence of antibodies to gI appears to be the best method for verifying standard field virus infection.
One study showed that exposure to the virus could be detected as early as day 7 and up to 141 days after field virus exposure.
In inorganic chemistry, a sulfate (IUPAC -recommended spelling; also sulphate in British English) is a salt of sulfuric acid.
Campylobacter jejuni is a species of curved, rod-shaped, non-spore forming, Gram-negative microaerophilic, bacteria commonly found in animal feces.
It is one of the most common causes of human gastroenteritis in the world.
Food poisoning caused by Campylobacter species can be severely debilitating, but is rarely life-threatening.
It has been linked with subsequent development of Guillain-Barré syndrome (GBS), which usually develops two to three weeks after the initial illness.
C. jejuni is commonly associated with poultry, and it naturally colonises the digestive tract of many bird species.
One study found that 30% of European Starlings in farm settings in Oxfordshire, United Kingdom, were carriers of C. jejuni.
It has also been isolated from wombat and kangaroo feces, being a cause of bushwalkers' diarrhea.
Contaminated drinking water and unpasteurized milk provide an efficient means for distribution.
Contaminated food is a major source of isolated infections, with incorrectly prepared meat and poultry normally the source of the bacteria.
Infection with C. jejuni usually results in enteritis, which is characterised by abdominal pain, diarrhea, fever, and malaise.
The symptoms usually persist for between 24 hours and a week, but may be longer.
Diarrhea can vary in severity from loose stools to bloody stools.
The disease is usually self-limiting.
However, it does respond to antibiotics.
Severe (accompanying fevers, blood in stools) or prolonged cases may require ciprofloxacin, erythromycin, azithromycin or norfloxacin.
The drug of choice is usually erythromycin.
About 90% of cases respond to ciprofloxacin treatment.
Fluid and electrolyte replacement may be required for serious cases.
Phosphomannomutase 2 (PMM2) is involved in the synthesis of GDP-mannose from mannose-1-phosphate.
It is encoded by the PMM2 gene, which is located on chromosome 16p13.2.
PMM2 enzyme deficiency is the cause of congenital disorder of glycosylation type Ia (CDG Ia, also known as Jaeken syndrome), an autosomal recessive disorder that presents in the neonatal period and is characterized by hypotonia, seizures, significant cognitive delay, encephalopathy, cardiomyopathy, liver insufficiency and hypogonadism.
Twenty percent of affected patients die by the age of 2.
The Diagnostic Imaging Report (DIR) is a document from the consulting imaging data specialist to the ordering or referring clinician that interprets the image data.
This report is part of the patient's medical record and is used in radiology, endoscopy, cardiology and other imaging specialties.
Bromazine (Amrodyl), also known as bromodiphenhydramine, is an antihistamine and anticholinergic.
Prulifloxacin is an oral, broad spectrum fluoroquinolone antimicrobial drug.
It is metabolized to ulifloxacin, its active form, by first pass metabolism in the liver.
It is effective against both gram positive and gram negative bacteria, and indications for use include urinary tract infection and exacerbation of chronic bronchitis.
The PAX3 gene (paired box 3) is located on chromosome 2q35.
This gene is a member of the paired box (PAX) family of transcription factors.
Members of the PAX family typically contain a paired box domain and a paired-type homeodomain.
These genes play critical roles during fetal development.
Mutations in paired box gene 3 are associated with Waardenburg syndrome, craniofacial-deafness-hand syndrome, and alveolar rhabdomyosarcoma.
The translocation t(2;13)(q35;q14), which represents a fusion between PAX3 and the forkhead gene, is a frequent finding in alveolar rhabdomyosarcoma.
Alternative splicing results in transcripts encoding isoforms with different C-termini.
St. Louis Encephalitis is a disease caused by the mosquito borne St. Louis Encephalitis virus.
St. Louis encephalitis virus is related to Japanese encephalitis virus.
This disease mainly affects the United States.
Occasional cases have been reported from Canada and Mexico.
The A wave represents the flow of blood through the mitral or tricuspid valve into the ventricle (ventricular filling) during atrial contraction.
During the A wave, upper-case A represents the blood flow velocity (LOINC component: blood flow velocity.
A wave) and lower-case a prime (a') represents the annular tissue velocity (LOINC component: tissue velocity.
The A and a' waves follow the E (LOINC component: blood flow velocity.
E wave) and e' waves (LOINC component: tissue velocity.
E wave), which represent ventricular filling during early diastole, before the start of atrial contraction.
Pyroglutamic acid (also known as pidolic acid, or pyroglutamate for its basic form) is an uncommon amino acid derivative in which the free amino group of glutamic acid cyclizes to form a lactam.
The sodium salt of pyroglutamic acid - known either as sodium pyroglutamate or sodium pidolate - is used on the skin to retain moisture.
Pyroglutamic acid is sold as a dietary supplement in the United States.
A karyotype is a standardized arrangement of chromosomes.
In normal diploid organisms, autosomal chromosomes are present in two identical copies, although polyploid cells have multiple copies of chromosomes and haploid cells have single copies.
The chromosomes are paired, ordered by size, stained and displayed in a standard format known as an idiogram.
Karyotypes are used to study chromosomal aberrations, and may be used to determine other macroscopically visible aspects of an individual's genotype, such as sex.
The pattern of individual chromosomes is called chromosome banding, whereas the study of whole sets of chromosomes is known as karyology.
Normal human karyotypes contain 22 pairs of autosomal chromosomes and one pair of sex chromosomes.
Olea europaea, the Olive tree, has been recognised as one of the most important causes of seasonal respiratory allergy in the Mediterranean area and in other parts of the world where this tree is now grown.
The Olive tree is grown in many parts of the world.
Its germplasm is very broad, with 250 varieties in Spain alone.
Chloromethane, also called methyl chloride, R-40 or HCC 40, is a chemical compound of the group of organic compounds called haloalkanes.
It was once widely used as a refrigerant.
It is a colorless extremely flammable gas with a minorly sweet odor, which is, however, detected at possibly toxic levels.
Due to concerns about its toxicity, it is no longer present in consumer products
Blueberries are a group of flowering plants in the genus Vaccinium, sect.
The species are native to North America and eastern Asia.
They are shrubs varying in size from 10 cm tall to 4 m tall; the smaller species are known as lowbush blueberries, and the larger species as highbush blueberries.
The leaves can be either deciduous or evergreen, ovate to lanceolate, and from 1-8 cm long and 0.5-3.5 cm broad.
The flowers are bell-shaped, white, pale pink or red, sometimes tinged greenish.
The fruit is botanically a true berry 5-16 mm diameter with a flared crown at the end; they are pale greenish at first, then reddish-purple, and finally turn blue or dark purple on ripening.
They have a sweet taste when mature, with variable acidity.
The blueberry season typically runs from May to October, peaking in July.
All the species whose common names in English include blueberry are currently classified in section Cyanococcus of the genus Vaccinium.
The Dermateaceae is a family of cup fungi.
Many species in this family are plant pathogens or decay plant material.
This hardy cereal grain is native to Mesopotamia, and its use dates back to the Stone Age.
Barley is the fourth most important grain in the world, after Wheat, Maize and Rice.
Most of the Barley now grown in the Western world is used either for animal fodder or, when malted, in the brewing and distilling industries.
Barley is an erect annual grass, producing grain in bristly-bearded terminal spikes.
Barley may commonly induce symptoms of food allergy in sensitised individuals.
Symptoms may include gastrointestinal distress, atopic dermatitis and urticaria, angioedema, anaphylaxis and food-dependant, exercise-induced anaphylaxis, wheezing and baker's asthma.
Cough, wheezing, shortness of breath, fever, stuffy nose, and skin itching/rash on exposure to grain dust have also been reported, as well as "grain fever".
Long chain fatty acids (LCFA) are fatty acids with aliphatic tails longer than 12 carbons.
Found on some B-cells Associated with Prolymphocytic leukemia, Hairy cell leukemia and Splenic lymphoma
Acetate, or ethanoate, is the anion of a salt or ester of acetic acid.
The acetate ion has the formula CH3 COOˆ', and is the conjugate base of acetic acid.
Acetate can also refer to cellulose acetate, especially fibers or other derived products such as the acetate disc used in audio record production.
Acetate can be found in many household products.
Prior to the discovery and naming of actinium, the abbreviation Ac (or AC) was sometimes used in chemical formulas to indicate the acetate ion.
For example, the formula for sodium acetate might be given as NaAc, rather than the more modern NaCH3 COO or NaC2 H3 O2.
Use in organic chemistry:In the field of organic chemistry the abbreviation Ac refers to the acetyl group CH3 CO, therefore in the organic chemistry literature acetate is referred to as ˆ'OAc, sodium acetate as NaOAc, and ethyl acetate as EtOAc.
Spirals are mucosal formations of various sizes.
They are formed when the bronchi spasm and the presence of mucus in them.
During coughing, viscous mucus is ejected into the lumen of the large bronchi, twisting in a spiral.
Crystals are formed from the decay of eosinophils, so they can not always be detected in freshly separated sputum, despite the presence of eosinophils.
The NOTCH1 gene (notch 1) is located on chromosome 9q34.3.
This gene encodes a member of the NOTCH family of proteins.
Members of this Type I transmembrane protein family share structural characteristics including an extracellular domain consisting of multiple epidermal growth factor-like (EGF) repeats, and an intracellular domain consisting of multiple different domain types.
Notch signaling is an evolutionarily conserved intercellular signaling pathway that regulates interactions between physically adjacent cells through binding of Notch family receptors to their cognate ligands.
The encoded preproprotein is proteolytically processed in the trans-Golgi network to generate two polypeptide chains that heterodimerize to form the mature cell-surface receptor.
This receptor plays a role in the development of numerous cell and tissue types.
Mutations in this gene are associated with aortic valve disease, Adams-Oliver syndrome, T-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia, chronic lymphocytic leukemia, and head and neck squamous cell carcinoma.
Neural Cell Adhesion Molecule (NCAM, also the cluster of differentiation CD56) is a homophilic binding glycoprotein expressed on the surface of neurons, glia, skeletal muscle and natural killer cells.
NCAM has been implicated as having a role in cell-cell adhesion, neurite outgrowth, synaptic plasticity, and learning and memory.
The inferior angle between the Basion-Nasion line and CC (Pterygoid-Contructed Gnathion line)
SMEDI (an acronym of stillbirth, mummification, embryonic death, and infertility) is a reproductive disease of swine caused by porcine parvovirus (PPV) and porcine enterovirus.
The term SMEDI usually indicates porcine enterovirus, but it also can indicate porcine parvovirus, which is a more important cause of the syndrome.
SMEDI also causes abortion, neonatal death, and decreased male fertility.
Food allergen mix 75 (fx75) contains cow milk, egg white, cod, wheat IgE antibodies.
Testing for IgE antibodies may be used to help diagnose an allergic disease or the cause of an anaphylactic episode in a patient.
Hazelnut is one of the most frequently observed sources of food allergy.
In populations from Northern Europe and other Fagales-rich (birch, alder, hazel, hornbeam, and oak) regions, reactions are in most cases elicited by Cor a 1.
Cor a 1 is an allergen of the PR-10 protein family with about 65% sequence homology to Bet v 1, the major allergen in birch pollen.
Autologous blood donation is a method by which an individual may donate his or her own blood to be stored and used for transfusion at a future date.
The calcium salt of oxalic acid, occurring in the urine as crystals and in certain calculi.
2-Hexanol (or hexan-2-ol) is a six carbon alcohol in which the OH group is located on the second carbon atom.
Its chemical formula is C6H14O or C6H13OH.
It is an isomer of the other hexanols.
2-Hexanol has a chiral center and can be resolved into enantiomers.
Nortriptyline is a second generation tricyclic antidepressant marketed as the hydrochloride under the tradenames Aventyl ® and Pamelor ®.
It is used in the treatment of depression and childhood nocturnal enuresis (bedwetting).
In addition it is sometimes used for chronic pain modification.
Lathosterol is a sterol and lipid found in the cell membranes of all body tissues, and transported in the blood plasma of all animals.
It is used as an indicator of whole-body cholesterol synthesis.
Plasma lathosterol levels are significantly elevated in patients with bile acid malabsorption .
Ubiquitin is a small (8.5 kDa) regulatory protein that has been found in almost all tissues (ubiquitously) of eukaryotic organisms.
There are four genes in the human genome that produce ubiquitin; UBB, UBC, UBA52 and RPS27A. Immunohistochemistry using antibodies to ubiquitin can identify abnormal accumulations of this protein inside cells, indicating a disease process.
These protein accumulations are referred to as inclusion bodies (which is a general term for any microscopically visible collection of abnormal material in a cell).
Examples include neurofibrillary tangles in Alzheimer disease, lewy body in Parkinson disease, pick bodies in Pick's disease, and inclusions in motor neuron disease and Huntington disease.
The recent outbreak (2012) of fungal meningitis in the United States has been attributed to contamination of epidural steroid injection, methylprednisolone acetate by a rare fungal pathogen, Exserohilum rostratum.
As of November 4, 2012, 400 cases, which include 7 peripheral joint infections, have been reported in 19 states.
Twenty-nine of the cases have resulted in death.
It is estimated that approximately 14,000 patients received contaminated steroid injection for pain treatment.
The pathogen E. rostratum has been reported in clinical specimens from multiple cases with fungal meningitis and other spinal infections.
Real time PCR assays are used for the detection of Exserohilum DNA from multiple clinical specimen types.
The high specificity and sensitivity of real time PCR assays assist in early diagnosis and the selection of optimal treatment regimens, reducing the mortality and morbidity associated with E. rostratum-induced meningitis or other ailments.
Exercise intensity levels can be categorized as light, moderate or vigorous.
Intensity can be further defined in absolute or relative terms.
Absolute exercise intensity is independent of an individual's level of fitness and defined in terms of metabolic equivalents, or METs, which is a unit useful for describing the energy expenditure of a specific activity.
Light intensity exercise is defined at 1.1-2.9 METs, moderate is 3.0 to 5.9 METs and vigorous is 6.0 METs or more, according to the U.S. Department of Health & Human Services' Physical Activity Guidelines Advisory Committee (2008).
The Advisory Committee indicated that 150 minutes (2 hours and 30 minutes) of moderate-intensity activity per week could be regarded as (roughly) equivalent to 500 MET-minutes per week.
Relative intensity takes an individual's level of fitness and can be defined in terms of a percent of a person's (1) maximal heart rate, (2) heart rate reserve, or (3) aerobic capacity reserve.
Relative moderate intensity is defined as 40 to 59 percent of aerobic capacity reserve (where 0 percent of reserve is resting and 100 percent of reserve is maximal effort).
Relatively vigorous-intensity activity is defined as 60 to 84 percent of reserve.
Mitosis is the process by which a eukaryotic cell nucleus divides in two, and is followed by division of the parent cell into two daughter cells.
Mitotic rate is the measurement of how fast these cells divide.
Mitotic rate is calculated by the measurement of mitotic figures (condensed DNA that can be seen just before the cell divides) found on hematoxylin and eosin (H&E)-stained tissue sections.
For multiple cancers, mitotic rate has been recognized as a key measurement in predicting how aggressive the cancer is.
An increase in mitotic rate is associated with increased risk of mortality.
Mitotic rate is not just used in the prognosis, but also for treatment planning.
The CYP3A4 gene (cytochrome P450, family 3, subfamily A, polypeptide 4) is located on chromosome 7q21.1.
This gene encodes a member of the cytochrome P450 superfamily of enzymes.
The cytochrome P450 proteins are monooxygenases that catalyze many reactions involved in drug metabolism and synthesis of cholesterol, steroids and other lipids.
This protein localizes to the endoplasmic reticulum and its expression is induced by glucocorticoids and some pharmacological agents.
This enzyme is involved in the metabolism of approximately half the drugs in use today, including acetaminophen, codeine, cyclosporin A, diazepam and erythromycin.
The enzyme also metabolizes some steroids and carcinogens.
This gene is part of a cluster of cytochrome P450 genes on chromosome 7q21.1.
Previously another CYP3A gene, CYP3A3, was thought to exist; however, it is now thought that this sequence represents a transcript variant of CYP3A4.
Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been identified.
The apple tree belongs to the species Malus domestica in the rose family Rosaceae.
It is one of the most widely cultivated tree fruits.
It is a small deciduous tree reaching 5-12 m tall, with a broad, often densely twiggy crown.
The leaves are alternately arranged, simple oval with an acute tip and serrated margin, slightly downy below, 5-12 cm long and 3-6 cm broad on a 2-5 cm petiole.
The flowers are produced in spring with the leaves, white, usually tinged pink at first, 2.5-3.5 cm diameter, with five petals.
The fruit matures in autumn, and is typically 5-9 cm diameter (rarely up to 15 cm).
The TTR gene (transthyretin) is located on chromosome 18q12.1.
This gene encodes transthyretin, one of the three prealbumins including alpha-1-antitrypsin, transthyretin and orosomucoid.
Transthyretin is a carrier protein; it transports thyroid hormones in the plasma and cerebrospinal fluid, and also transports retinol (vitamin A) in the plasma.
The protein consists of a tetramer of identical subunits.
More than 80 different mutations in this gene have been reported; most mutations are related to amyloid deposition, affecting predominantly peripheral nerve and/or the heart, and a small portion of the gene mutations is non-amyloidogenic.
The diseases caused by mutations include amyloidotic polyneuropathy, euthyroid hyperthyroxinaemia, amyloidotic vitreous opacities, cardiomyopathy, oculoleptomeningeal amyloidosis, meningocerebrovascular amyloidosis, carpal tunnel syndrome, etc.
A tricylic dibenzodiazepine, classified as an atypical antipsychotic agent.
It binds several types of central nervous system receptors, and displays a unique pharmacological profile.
Clozapine is a serotonin antagonist, with strong binding to 5-HT 2A/2C receptor subtype.
It also displays strong affinity to several dopaminergic receptors, but shows only weak antagonism at the dopamine D2 receptor, a receptor commonly thought to modulate neuroleptic activity.
Agranulocytosis is a major adverse effect associated with administration of this agent.
Anti-ganglioside autoantibodies are one marker of multiple sclerosis (MS).
In one study, about 30% of patients with MS had anti-GD2-like IgM autoantibodies, and some of those also had antibodies to GD1a and/or GD3.
Presence of anti-GD2-like antibodies was associated with significantly more neurological disability compared to patients with MS that did not have anti-GD2-like antibodies.
A species of trematode blood flukes of the family Schistosomatidae.
It is common in the Nile delta.
The intermediate host is the planorbid snail.
This parasite causes schistosomiasis mansoni and intestinal bilharziasis.
Astragalus (As-trá-ga-lus) is a large genus of about 2,000 species of herbs and small shrubs, belonging to the legume family Fabaceae, subfamily Faboideae.
The genus is native to temperate regions of the Northern Hemisphere.
Common names include milk-vetch (most species), locoweed (in western US, some species) and goat's-thorn (A. gummifer, A. tragacanthus).
Succinylacetone is a primary marker for Tyrosinemia type I.
Terbufos is a clear, slightly brown-yellow liquid and an organophosphate used as a nematicide on corn, sugar beets, and grain sorghum.
Terbufos is lethal against wireworms, seedcorn maggots, white grubs, corn rootworm larvae and more.
Because of its extreme toxicity, terbufos is labeled with the signal word DANGER and can only be handled by certified applicators.
After ingesting terbufos symptoms of acute poisoning can include nausea, abdominal cramps, vomiting, salivation, excessive sweating and diarrhea.
If terbufos is absorbed through the skin into the bloodstream, the inhibition of cholinesterase may occur leading to chest tightness, wheezing, blurred vision, fatigue, headache, slurred speech, and confusion.
If the level of terbufos is high enough, the respiratory muscles may become paralyzed resulting in death.
Terbufos does not appear to be mutagenic or likely to cause any reproductive issues in humans.
It not classified as a human carcinogen.
Terbufos is extremely toxic to birds, mammals, and reptiles.
A synthetic hormone used for androgen replacement therapy and as an hormonal antineoplastic agent (ANTINEOPLASTIC AGENTS, HORMONAL).
Yohimbine is an alkaloid with stimulant and aphrodisiac effects found naturally in Pausinystalia yohimbe (Yohimbe).
Yohimbine has been used as both an over-the-counter dietary supplement in herbal extract form and prescription medicine in pure form for the treatment of sexual dysfunction.
Pregnanediolone (PDL) is, among other steroids like pregnanetriol (P3), an important marker in the urinary steroid excretion profile for the occurrence of an adrenal 21-hydroxylase-deficiency.
Its concentration is also an indication for the effectiveness of medication (e.g., cortisol supplementation) against this disease.
Humans are considered the only hosts of the nematode Enterobius vermicularis which are small, white, threadlike worms.
Females possess a long, pin-shaped posterior end, hence the name "pinworm.
Enterobius vermicularis dwell primarily in the large intestine, from where the gravid females migrate at night to lay up to 15,000 eggs on the perineum.
A second species, Enterobius gregorii, has been reported from Europe, Asia and Africa and has identical morphology, life cycle, clinical presentation and treatment.
Enterobiasis is the most common helminthic infection (est. 40 million persons infected) in the United States.
Worldwide enterobiasis appears more common in temperate countries and infections worldwide are more frequent in children and in crowded conditions.
Embryonic eggs are typically ingested by humans.
Self-infection occurs by transferring infective eggs to the mouth with hands that have scratched the perianal area.
Transmission also occurs through handling of contaminated clothes or bed linens or through other surfaces contaminated with pinworm eggs.
Enterobiasis is frequently asymptomatic with the most common symptom being perianal pruritus.
The female genital tract may also become infected.
Other symptoms may include abdominal pain, anorexia and irritability.
Microscopic identification of eggs collected in the perianal area is the method of choice for diagnosis.
Mebendazole, pyrantel pamoate, or albendazole are used for treatment.
A water-soluble aminoglycosidic antibiotic complex isolated from fermentation filtrates of Bacillus circulans.
Two components (A and B) have been separated from the complex.
Both are active against many gram-positive and some gram-negative bacteria.
Leukocyte esterase (LE) is an enzyme contained in WBCs.
In fluids that are usually cell "free", detection of this enzyme indicates the presence of a significant number of WBCs which can signal infection or inflammation.
In urine, this test is used to detect white blood cells and other abnormalities associated with infections.
White blood cells in the urine usually indicate a urinary tract infection (UTI).
The LE test detects esterase, an enzyme released by white blood cells.
Testing for LE is a routine part of the urine dip stick, and helps to diagnose urinary tract infections.
Positive test results are clinically significant.
The LE test is also used to screen for gonorrhea and for amniotic fluid infections.
The combination of the LE test with the urinary nitrite test provides an excellent tool for the presence of a UTI.
A urine sample that tests positive for both nitrite and leukocyte esterase should be cultured for pathogenic bacteria.
Pentan-2-one or methyl propyl ketone is a colorless liquid ketone with an odor resembling that of acetone.
Its formula is C5H10O.
It is sometimes used in very small amounts as a flavoring food additive.
Two other ketones, 3-pentanone and methyl isopropyl ketone are isomers of 2-pentanone.
Epidemic typhus, also called Jail Fever, Hospital Fever or Famine fever is a form of typhus caused by the bacillus Rickettsia prowazekii, carried by the human body louse Pediculus humanus humanus.
Feeding on a human who carries the bacillus infects the louse.
R. prowazekii grows in the louse's gut and is excreted in the feces.
The disease is transmitted to an uninfected human who scratches the bite and rubs the feces into the wound.
Incubation period is one to two weeks.
R. prowazekii can remain viable and virulent in the dried feces for many days.
The disease will kill the louse and it will remain viable for many weeks in the dead louse.
The symptoms set in quickly, and are among the most severe of the typhus family.
They include severe headache, a sustained high fever, cough, rash, severe muscle pain, chills, falling blood pressure, stupor, sensitivity to light, and delirium.
Equine viral arteritis (EVA) is a disease of horses caused by an RNA virus of the genus Arterivirus.
There is no known human hazard.
Arteriviruses are small, enveloped, animal viruses with an icosahedral core containing a positive-sense RNA genome.
The family includes Equine arteritis virus (EAV), porcine reproductive and respiratory syndrome virus (PRRSV), lactate dehydrogenase elevating virus (LDV) of mice and simian haemorrhagic fever virus (SHFV).
Barbiturates are CNS depressants that primarily act on gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) and GABA A receptors.
When GABA binds to GABA A, chloride channels open and allow the influx of chloride ions, which decrease the membrane potential and inhibit the neuron's action potential.
They are used as sedatives, hypnotics, anesthetics, and anticonvulsants.
Prolonged use can lead to physical tolerance and dependence, which has caused a significant decrease in their use over time.
However, certain uses are still common, such as phenobarbital for refractory seizure disorders, butalbital for analgesia, and thiopental for anesthesia.
Fibrin monomers are created when Thrombin cleaves fibrinopeptides A and B from fibrinogen.
The presence of fibrin monomer may be an early indicator of pro-thrombin activity.
Fibrin monomer concentrations are typically compared with those of D-dimer to monitor various hemostatic conditions, such as deep vein thrombosis (DVT) and pulmonary embolism (PE) status.
Fibrin monomers are referred to by many names: Fibrin Monomer, Soluble Fibrin Monomer, Soluble Fibrin, Fibrin Monomer Complexes, and Fibrin Monomer Complexes, all which are indistinguishable and interchangeable.
Passion fruit is grown in much of the tropical and subtropical world, including Brazil, Australia, New Zealand, Israel, Jamaica, South Africa, Malaya, Fiji and Hawaii.
Passion fruit may occasionally induce symptoms of food allergy in sensitised individuals, and more frequently in Latex-allergic individuals.
A nonapeptide posterior pituitary hormone that causes uterine contractions and stimulates milk ejection.
FOXO1 (forkhead box O1) gene is located on chromosome 13 at position q14.11.
The FOXO1 gene is part of the forkhead family of transcription factors but its specific function is not yet known.
Gene rearrangements involving the FOXO1 are seen frequently in alveolar rhabdomyosarcoma (ARMS), an aggressive soft-tissue sarcoma.
Leishmania is a genus of trypanosome protozoa, and is the parasite responsible for the disease leishmaniasis.
It is spread through sandflies of the genus Phlebotomus in the Old World, and of the genus Lutzomyia in the New World.
Their primary hosts are vertebrates; Leishmania commonly infects hyraxes, canids, rodents, and humans.
Leishmania currently affects 12 million people in 88 countries.
A selective beta-2 adrenergic agonist used as a bronchodilator and tocolytic.
Human respiratory syncytial virus (RSV), a negative-sense, single-stranded RNA virus of the family Paramyxoviridae, causes upper respiratory tract infections and bronchiolitis, an infection of the small airways that can cause wheezing and respiratory distress.
Infants, especially those that were born prematurely, are particularly susceptible, and RSV bronchiolitis is a common cause of hospitalization for infants during the winter months.
Certain groups of high-risk infants may be given palivizumab, a recombinant monoclonal antibody to RSV, as prophylaxis against RSV infection.
Naloxol is an opioid antagonist closely related to naloxone.
It exists in two isomeric forms, α-naloxol and β-naloxol.
The alpha form is a naturally-occurring metabolite of naloxone, and both the alpha and beta forms can be synethetically manufactured.
Cryptococcus species are encapsulated yeast that cause cryptococcosis, an opportunistic infection that primary affects patients who are immunocompromised.
Manifestations of Cryptococcus infection include meningitis and pulmonary cryptococcosis.
Analysis of the DNA encoding the ribosomal RNA, sometimes referred to as rDNA, can differentiate among pathogenic yeast, such as Candida and Cryptococcus, and can also be used to identify specific species, such as Cryptococcus neoformans and C. gattii, depending on the specific region that is targeted.
A durable T cell immune response to SARS-CoV-2 has been demonstrated that is a more sensitive marker of past infection than humoral response.
As a result, the measurement of cell-mediated immune response to SARS-CoV-2 using an interferon-gamma release assay (IGRA) similar to that used for Mycobacterium tuberculosis has been proposed as a way to evaluate the immune status of individuals and populations, as well as assess vaccines to SARS CoV-2.
The Rodgers (Rga) antigen is a plasma protein that binds to the red blood cell (RBC) membrane.
About 2 to 3% of the transfusion-recipient white population lacks the antigen and can produce anti-Rga antibody.
Neisseria meningitidis is identified based on the species-specific targets sodC and ctrA. Individual Neisseria meningitidis serogroups are identified based on their serogroup-specific genes for capsule biosynthesis.
Serogroups and the genes that identify them are as follows: N. meningitidis serogroup A: sacB N. meningitidis serogroup B: synD N. meningitidis serogroup C: synE N. meningitidis serogroup w135: synG N. meningitidis serogroup X: xcbB N. meningitidis serogroup Y: synF
Oxyhemoglobin is formed during respiration when oxygen binds to the heme component of the protein hemoglobin in red blood cells.
This process occurs in the pulmonary capillaries adjacent to the alveoli of the lungs.
The oxygen then travels through the blood stream to be dropped off at cells where it is utilized in aerobic glycolysis and in the production of ATP by the process of oxidative phosphorylation.
It doesn't however help to counteract a decrease in blood pH. Ventilation, or breathing, may reverse this condition by removal of carbon dioxide, thus causing a shift up in pH. Deoxyhemoglobin is the form of hemoglobin without the bound oxygen.
The absorption spectrums of oxyhemoglobin and deoxyhemoglobin differ.
The oxyhemoglobine has significantly lower absorption of the 660 nm wavelength than deoxyhemoglobin, while at 940 nm its absorption is slightly higher.
This difference is used for measurement of the amount of oxygen in patient's blood by an instrument called pulse oximeter.
Cyclohexanone is the organic compound with the formula (CH2)5CO.
The molecule consists of six-carbon cyclic molecule with a ketone functional group.
This colorless oil has an odor reminiscent of peardrop sweets as well as acetone.
Over time, samples assume a yellow color due to oxidation.
Cyclohexanone is slightly soluble in water (5-10 g/100 mL), but miscible with common organic solvents.
Billions of kilograms are produced annually, mainly as a precursor to nylon.
The SMN1 gene (survival of motor neuron 1, telomeric) is located on chromosome 5q13.2.
This gene is part of a 500 kb inverted duplication on chromosome 5q13.
This duplicated region contains at least four genes and repetitive elements which make it prone to rearrangements and deletions.
The repetitiveness and complexity of the sequence have also caused difficulty in determining the organization of this genomic region.
The telomeric and centromeric copies of this gene are nearly identical and encode the same protein.
However, mutations in this gene, the telomeric copy, are associated with spinal muscular atrophy; mutations in the centromeric copy do not lead to disease.
The centromeric copy may be a modifier of disease caused by mutation in the telomeric copy.
The critical sequence difference between the two genes is a single nucleotide in exon 7, which is thought to be an exon splice enhancer.
Note that the nine exons of both the telomeric and centromeric copies are designated historically as exon 1, 2a, 2b, and 3-8.
It is thought that gene conversion events may involve the two genes, leading to varying copy numbers of each gene.
The protein encoded by this gene localizes to both the cytoplasm and the nucleus.
Within the nucleus, the protein localizes to subnuclear bodies called gems which are found near coiled bodies containing high concentrations of small ribonucleoproteins (snRNPs).
This protein forms heteromeric complexes with proteins such as SIP1 and GEMIN4, and also interacts with several proteins known to be involved in the biogenesis of snRNPs, such as hnRNP U protein and the small nucleolar RNA binding protein.
Multiple transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms have been described.
Dermatan sulfate is a derived disaccharide that accumulates in lysosomes, extracellular matrix, and body fluids of people with mucopolysaccharidoses (MPSs).
MPSs are rare disorders caused by a deficiency of enzymes that break down glycosaminoglycans (GAGs).
Symptoms of MPS vary due to which storage product accumulates and the level of enzymatic function or concentration that remains.
Symptoms include musculoskeletal, airway, cardiac, and central nervous system disorders.
Treatments include hematopoietic stem cell transplantation for the more critical forms of MPS and intravenous enzyme replacement therapy for the others.
Treatment is most effective when it is initiated before irreversible tissue damage has occurred.
Because MPS is so rare and the symptoms so variable, it is difficult to diagnose in its earliest stages.
A solution to that problem is the development of newborn screening assays that can detect dermatan sulfate, though the levels in the dried blood spot samples do not appear to predict the severity of disease.
The pattern of dermatan and heparan sulfate can help distinguish between the different MPSs.
The layer of EXTRACELLULAR MATRIX that lies between the ENDOTHELIUM of the glomerular capillaries and the PODOCYTES of the inner or visceral layer of the BOWMAN CAPSULE.
It is the product of these two cell types.
It acts as a physical barrier and an ion-selective filter.
Mycobacterium embB region gene mutation for EMB resistance
Testing for volatile substances, such as ethanol, methanol, isopropanol, and acetone, in whole blood, urine, and other patient specimens is performed to evaluate toxicity.
Ethanol is a significant substance of abuse in the United States.
It is present in beer, wine, vodka, whiskey and other liquors.
The concentration of ethanol in blood correlates with the degree of intoxication.
As a depressant, it alters cerebral function causing typical symptoms such as impaired thought, clouded judgment, and changed behavior.
Methanol and isopropanol are highly toxic volatile substances and result from exogenous ingestion.
Acetone is generally elevated in metabolic conditions such as diabetic ketoacidosis.
Occupational allergen mix 1 (pax1) detects horse dander (e3), cow dander (e4), goose feathers (e70), and chicken feathers (85) IgE antibodies.
Testing for IgE antibodies may be used to help diagnose an allergic disease or the cause of an anaphylactic episode in a patient.
Enzyme and fluorescent-based assays, which were preceded by the RAST test (Radio-AllergoSorbent Test), are performed to detect allergen-specific IgE in the patient's serum.
HIV-1 is the most common and pathogenic strain of the virus.
Scientists divide HIV-1 into a major group (Group M) and two or more minor groups.
Each group is believed to represent an independent transmission of SIV into humans (but subtypes within a group are not).
With 'M' for "major", the M group is by far the most common type of HIV, with more than 90% of HIV/AIDS cases deriving from infection with HIV-1 group M. The M group is subdivided further into clades, called subtypes, that are also given a letter.
There are also "circulating recombinant forms" or CRFs derived from recombination between viruses of different subtypes which are each given a number.
CRF12_BF, for example, is a recombination between subtypes B and F. Subtype A is common in West Africa.
Subtype B is the dominant form in Europe, the Americas, Japan, Thailand, and Australia.
Subtype C is the dominant form in Southern Africa, India, and Nepal.
Subtype D is generally only seen in Eastern and central Africa.
(Subtype E) has never been identified as a nonrecombinant, only recombined with subtype A as CRF01_AE.
Subtype F has been found in central Africa, South America and Eastern Europe.
Subtype G (and the CRF02_AG) have been found in Africa and central Europe.
Subtype H is limited to central Africa.
(Subtype I) was originally used to describe a strain that is now accounted for as CRF04_cpx, with the cpx for a "complex" recombination of several subtypes.
Subtype J is primarily found in North, Central and West Africa, and the Caribbean Subtype K is limited to the Democratic Republic of Congo and Cameroon.
These subtypes are sometimes further split into sub-subtypes such as A1 and A2 or F1 and F2.
This is not thought to be a complete or final list, and further types are likely to be found.
Increases of ketosteroids in urine accompany adrenal carcinomas, pregnancy, and administration of adrenocorticotropic hormone, as well as interstitial cell tumor of the testis, Cushings syndrome, nonmalignant adrenal tumors inducing virilism, androgenic arrhenoblastoma, and lutein cell tumors of the ovary, female pseudohermaphrosidism, and the adrenogenital syndrom associated with adrenal hyperplasia.
Decreases in 17KS in Addison's disease, panhypopituitariam, myxedema, and nephrosis.
The CLN5 gene (ceroid-lipofuscinosis, neuronal 5) is located on chromosome 13q22.3.
This gene is one of eight which have been associated with neuronal ceroid lipofuscinoses (NCL).
Also referred to as Batten disease, NCL comprises a class of autosomal recessive, neurodegenerative disorders affecting children.
The genes responsible likely encode proteins involved in the degradation of post-translationally modified proteins in lysosomes.
The primary defect in NCL disorders is thought to be associated with lysosomal storage function.
Skeltal, cardiac and smooth muscle
Human Herpes Virus 6 (HHV6) is a member of the Beta-herpesvirus subfamily.
HHV6 infection is extremely common, with seroprevalence almost 100%.
Primary infection results in a fever that may exceed 40 degrees Celsius and last for 3-5 days.
Primary infection in children often results in fever followed by development of roseola or sixth disease.
The virus exists as latent infection in lymphocytes and monocytes following the primary infection and may be reactivated in immunocompromised patients.
Information from ARUP Laboratories 2007 01 08.
Maprotiline (drug class tetracyclic antidepressants) is used to treat depression, bipolar disorder, and anxiety.
Antidepressants increased the risk compared to placebo of suicidal thinking and behavior (suicidality) in children, adolescents and young adults in short-term studies of major depressive disorder and other psychiatric disorders.
Some common side effects include: nausea, drowsiness, weakness or tiredness, nightmares, dry mouth, skin more sensitive to sunlight than usual, changes in appetite or weight, constipation, difficulty urinating, frequent urination, and blurred vision, changes in sex drive or ability, and excessive sweating.
The Ontario Balsam Poplar, Populus balsamifera is a species of the genus Populus.
Common name for any member of a genus of herbs of the buckwheat family.
They have strong fleshy roots, erect thick stems, large stalked leaves, and small whitish or red flowers.
Leaf stalks contain a mixture of citric and malic acids, used to make sweet preserves or pie filling.
Leaves are highly poisonous and are never eaten.
The leaves also contains oxalic acid, which inhibits calcium and iron absorption, can aggravate joint problems in those with arthritis or gout, and may promote kidney stone formation.
The protein CD86 (Cluster of Differentiation 86) is a molecule which provides a costimulatory signal necessary for T cell activation and survival.
It is also known as B7.2.
Its principal mode of action is by binding to CD28.
Along with CD80, these molecules provide the necessary stimuli to prime T cells against antigens presented by antigen-presenting cells.
Prolintane (Catovit) is a stimulant which is closely related in chemical structure to other drugs such as pyrovalerone and with a similar mechanism of action, by inhibiting the reuptake of dopamine and other monoamine neurotransmitters.
It is a mild stimulant with a good safety profile and relatively low incidence of cardiovascular problems or other side effects such as anorexia and insomnia, although these side effects may still occur at higher doses.
However, the good safety profile of this drug at low doses makes it suitable for use in elderly people to increase motivation and counteract the effects of senile dementia and age-related cognitive decline.
It is mainly used in European countries.
Prolintane may also be abused as a recreational stimulant and use for this purpose has reportedly been increasing in recent years.
Babesia duncani is a parasite that invades human red blood cells and is transmitted by the Ixodid tick.
Infection by the Babesia species was first discovered in Croatia in 1957, but has proven to exist across the world in the last fifty years.
B. duncani primarily infects humans who live in Washington state and California.
The Babesia parasites possess vesicles that secrete enzymes that facilitates its entrance into the host erythrocytes.
They reproduces asexually in red blood cells and sexually in the Ixodid tick.
Infection with Babesia leads to a wide range and severity of symptoms.
Symptoms that are characterized as mild to moderate include fever, fatigue, chills, sweats, headache, myalgia, anorexia cough, arthralgia and nausea.
Symptoms of severe illness are seen most often in patients who are immunosuppressed due to infections like Human immunodeficiency virus and conditions such as cancer.
Severe symptoms of Babesia infection include respiratory failure, disseminated intravascular coagulation, congestive heart failure, liver and renal failure, and splenic infarction.
Infection with Babesia duncani tends to cause symptoms that are moderate to severe.
There are several ways to diagnose infections with Babesia including thick and thin smear analysis, polymerase chain reaction, indirect immunofluorescence antibody, and by injecting patient blood into a hamster and waiting for severe parasitemia to develop in 2-4 weeks.
Treatment of Babesia infection is with antibiotics.
Alcuronium is a muscular relaxant used for anasthetic purposes that has been shown to cause anaphylactic shock in some individuals.
IgE antibodies that bind to alcuronium have been detected in serum from patient's who experienced anaphylactic-like reactions following administration of the drug during anesthesia.
The e prime (e') wave (LOINC component: tissue velocity.
E wave) represents the annular tissue velocity of the mitral or tricuspid valve during early diastole, before atrial contraction.
The blood flow velocity during early diastole is known as the E wave (LOINC component: blood flow velocity.
The early diastolic velocity ratio (E/e') is an indicator of left ventricular diastolic function.
The ratio of early diastolic tissue velocity to tissue velocity during atrial contraction (e'/a') may also be an indicator of left ventricular function but is less reliable than the E/e' ratio.
Deoxynivalenol (DON), also known as vomitoxin, is a natural-occurring mycotoxin produced by certain Fusarium species.
DON predominantly infects various grains, including corn, wheat, oats, barley, and rice, either in the field or during storage.
DON is not considered a significant threat to public health, but some short term nausea and vomiting have been reported along with diarrhea, abdominal pain, headache, dizziness, and fever.
Salmon is the common name for several species of fish of the family Salmonidae.
Several other fish in the family are called trout.
Salmon live in both the Atlantic and Pacific Oceans, as well as the Great Lakes and other land locked lakes.
The Kamchatka Peninsula, in the Russian Far East, contains the world's greatest salmon sanctuary.
Typically, salmon are anadromous:they are born in fresh water, migrate to the ocean, then return to fresh water to reproduce.
Folklore has it that the fish return to the exact spot where they were born to spawn, and modern research shows that usually at least 90% of the fish spawning in a stream were born there.
In Alaska, the crossing over to other streams allows salmon to populate new streams, such as those that emerge as a glacier retreats.
The precise method salmon use to navigate has not been established, though their keen sense of smell seems to play a role.
Finasteride (Proscar and Propecia) is a synthetic antiandrogen that acts by inhibiting type II 5-alpha reductase, the enzyme that converts testosterone to dihydrotestosterone (DHT).
Finasteride, a treatment for benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH) and treat male pattern baldness (MPB).
Total spectral power of an EEG recording is the sum of the power in each of the frequency bands alpha, beta, delta, theta, sigma and gamma.
The total power is important for calculating the relative power of each frequency, which when observed over time, can help identify shifts in brain function.
Prostaglandins are fatty acids derived from arachidonic acid metabolism.
They are closely related to the Thromboxanes and Leukotrienes.
Prostaglandin F2a is derived mainly from Prostaglandins E2 and H2, and is metabolized to Dihydroketo Prostaglandin F2a.
Prostaglandin F2a is excreted directly into the urine.
Prostaglandin F2a contracts the circular muscle of the gut in opposition to the Prostaglandins of the E series.
Prostaglandin F2a causes accumulation of water and electrolytes in the lumen of the gut by stimulating their secretion.
It also inhibits glucose absorption.
Prostaglandin F2a has luteolytic actions in the corpus luteum.
Elevated levels of Prostaglandin F2a have been found in the spinal fluid of children with febrile convulsions and menningitis.
Elevated levels of Prostaglandin F2a have been detected in patients with the Watery Diarrhea Syndrome, neural crest tumors, pheochromocytomas, and other amine-peptide-secreting tumors.
Prostaglandin F2a production and circulating levels are drastically suppressed by aspirin and indomethacin.
The RS1 gene (retinoschisin 1) is located on chromosome Xp22.13.
This gene encodes an extracellular protein that plays a crucial role in the cellular organization of the retina.
The encoded protein is assembled and secreted from photoreceptors and bipolar cells as a homo-oligomeric protein complex.
Mutations in this gene are responsible for X-linked retinoschisis, a common, early-onset macular degeneration in males that results in a splitting of the inner layers of the retina and severe loss in vision.
A slightly acid milk food produced by fermentation due to the combined action of Lactobacillus acidophilus and Streptococcus thermophilus.
Venlafaxine (brand name Effexor) is used to treat depression.
Venlafaxine extended-release (long-acting) capsules are also used to treat generalized anxiety disorder (GAD; excessive worrying that is difficult to control), social anxiety disorder (extreme fear of interacting with others or performing in front of others that interferes with normal life), and panic disorder (sudden, unexpected attacks of extreme fear and worry about these attacks).
Venlafaxine is in a class of medications called selective serotonin and norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs).
It works by increasing the amounts of serotonin and norepinephrine, natural substances in the brain that help maintain mental balance.
Stomatocytes are red blood cells (rbcs) with an oval or rectangular area of central pallor, looking like a "mouth" on a stained blood smear differential.
The indentation on one side of the red cell is missing.
Stomatocytes usually have altered permeability and increased cell volume.
Stomatocytes tend to get trapped in the spleen and other organs, resulting in hemolysis.
40-60% of rbcs may be stomatocytes in patients with hereditary stomatocytosis.
Increased numbers of stomatocytes are seen with liver disease, electrolyte imbalance, and hereditary stomatocytosis.
Stomatocytes may also be seen as an artifact on a drying blood smear, but they should only be seen on some areas on the periphery of the blood smear.
The avian reovirus causes an important poultry disease.
The presence of white blood cells within or upon casts strongly suggests pyelonephritis, a direct infection of the kidney.
They may also be seen in inflammations, such as acute allergic interstitial nephritis, nephrotic syndrome, or post-streptococcal acute glomerulonephritis.
White cells sometimes can be difficult to discern from epithelial cells and may require special staining.
Differentiation from simple clumps of white cells can be made by the presence of hyaline matrix.
Triamterene is a potassium-sparing diuretic used in combination with thiazide diuretics for the treatment of hypertension.
People using this drug should not use salt substitutes.
Confusion surrounds the common names of fish in this group.
The genus Salmo salar is from the northern Atlantic, the others from the Pacific.
Sheep sorrel is a perennial herb/weed that originated in Europe and Asia and has become naturalised throughout temperate North America and all other temperate regions across the world.
Although grown as an herb, it is also classified as a noxious and invasive weed.
Sheep sorrel pollen can induce asthma, allergic rhinitis and allergic conjunctivitis
The MLYCD gene (malonyl-CoA decarboxylase) is located on chromosome 16q23.3.
The product of this gene catalyzes the breakdown of malonyl-CoA to acetyl-CoA and carbon dioxide.
Malonyl-CoA is an intermediate in fatty acid biosynthesis, and also inhibits the transport of fatty acyl CoAs into mitochondria.
Consequently, the encoded protein acts to increase the rate of fatty acid oxidation.
It is found in mitochondria, peroxisomes, and the cytoplasm.
Mutations in this gene result in malonyl-CoA decarboyxlase deficiency.
Corynebacteria are catalase producing, gram positive bacilli or coccobacilli.
In the past, the non-diphtherial corynebacteria were believed to be contaminants in cultures, but now are recognized as the cause of significant disease, especially as opportunistic infections in patients who are immunocompromised, who have prosthetic devices, or who spend extended periods of time in nursing homes or hospitals.
The most significant species of Corynebacterium is C diphtheria which is the bacteria that causes diphtheria.
Diphtheria has been eradicated from most developed countries due to the implementation of universal vaccination against the primary virulence factor of diphtheria which is the diphtheria toxin (DT).
There are 88 species of Corynebacterium, 53 of which cause occasional or extremely rare disease in humans or are transmitted by zoonotic exposure.
The remaining species have only been found in animals, birds, the environment, water, food, or synthetic material.
They have numerous metabolic properties including being fermentative, oxidative, assimilative, or nonreactive.
Corynebacterium can be identified by biochemical strips that compare chemical reactions to the chemical reactions of known organisms.
Other methods used to identify Corynebacterium include using gene sequencing and matrix-assisted laser desorption ionization-time of flight (MALDI-TOF).
Butanone, better known as methyl ethyl ketone or MEK, is an organic compound with the formula CH3C(O)CH2CH3.
This colorless liquid ketone has a sharp, sweet odor reminiscent of butterscotch and acetone.
It is produced industrially on a large scale, and also occurs in trace amounts in nature.
3-Methylglutaconic acid is a glutarate which builds up in the urine in 3-Methylglutaconic aciduria or 3-Hydroxy-3-methylglutaric aciduria.
Paper wasps are wasps of the family Vespidae, in the strict sense those belonging to the subfamily Polistinae, but the term is used colloquially to include some members of the subfamilies Vespinae and Stenogastrinae which also make nests out of paper.
The wasps gather fibres from old wood and dry dead plant stems, chew them, and mix with saliva to make a water-resistant gray or brown paper.
The nests of most true paper wasps are characterised by having open cells and a petiole attaching the nest to the substrate, or place where it is attached.
The wasps produce a chemical which repels ants, and they secrete it around the base of this petiole in order to avoid letting their brood become ant food.
Despite the use of the proper name, most social wasps make nests from paper, although some tropical wasp species, such as Liostenogaster flavolineata, use mud, a far easier resource for the wasp to collect.
Dechlorane is a white, stable odorless, synthetic, crystalline solid organochlorine insecticide and fire- retardant.
As an insecticide, dechlorane was used to kill fire ants.
When it was discovered to be a bioaccumulative pollutant in 1976, it was banned from use in the United States.
As a fire-retardant, dechlorane was added to plastics, paint, rubber, paper, and electrical appliances.
Symptoms of exposure to dechlorane can irritate the skin and eyes, cause headaches and dizziness, and nausea and vomiting.
In addition, dechlorane can adversely affect the central nervous system, lungs, liver and kidneys.
Dechlorane is also carcinogenic.
Medical diagnoses or clinical conditions the patient has at the time of the encounter that may or may not be associated with the primary or any other reason for the encounter.
The soybean (U.S. and UK) or soya bean (UK) (Glycine max) is a species of legume native to Eastern Asia.
It is an annual plant that may vary in growth habit and height.
It may grow prostrate, not growing higher than 20 cm (7.8 inches), or even stiffly erect up to 2 meters (6.5 feet) in height.
The pods, stems, and leaves are covered with fine brown or gray pubescence.
The leaves are trifoliate (sometimes with 5 leaflets), and the leaflets are 6-15 cm (2-6 inches) long and 2-7 cm (1-3 inches) broad; they fall before the seeds are mature.
The small, inconspicuous, self-fertile flowers are borne in the axil of the leaf and are either white or purple.
The fruit is a hairy pod that grows in clusters of 3-5, with each pod 3-8 cm (1-3 inches) long and usually containing 2-4 (rarely more) seeds 5-11 mm in diameter.
Like corn and some other crops of long domestication, the relationship of the modern soybean to wild-growing species can no longer be traced with any degree of certainty.
3,4-Dihydroxyphenylacetate (DOPAC) is a metabolite of dopamine via the monoamine oxidase (MAO) enzyme.
Measurement of DOPAC in conjunction with dopamine can be used to examine dopamine turnover and MAO activity.
There is also mention in the literature of using it in the evaluation of neuroblastoma, as well as in studying renal dopaminergic processing.
The type of solution used for peritoneal dialysis.
Solutions with higher glucose or dextrose concentrations remove more fluid from the patient compared to those with lower concentrations due to the gradient that is created.
The interRAI Long-Term Care Facilities Assessment System (interRAI LTCF) enables comprehensive, standardized evaluation of the needs, strengths, and preferences of persons receiving short-term post-acute care in skilled nursing facilities as well as persons living in chronic care and nursing home institutional settings.
Rocuronium (Zemuron, Esmeron) is an aminosteroid non-depolarizing (that is, it does not cause initial stimulation of muscles before weakening them) neuromuscular blocker or muscle relaxant used in modern anaesthesia, to facilitate endotracheal intubation and to provide skeletal muscle relaxation during surgery or mechanical ventilation.
There is considered to be some risk of allergic reaction to the drug in occasional patients (particularly those with asthma), but a similar incidence of allergic reactions has been observed by using other members of the same drug class (non-depolarizing neuromuscular blocking drugs).The drug is commonly used in modern anaesthesia.
The glomerular basement membrane is the basal laminal portion of the glomerulus which performs the actual filtration through the filtration slits between the podocytes, separating the blood on the inside from the filtrate on the outside.
It is a fusion of the endothelial cell and podocyte basal laminas.
Ethosuximide is a succinimide anticonvulsant drug used to treat absence (petit mal) seizures.
Ethosuximide suppresses the paroxysmal three cycle per second spike and wave activity associated with lapses of consciousness.
Grape has been reported to cause oral allergy syndrome, exercised induced asthma and anaphylaxis.
The etiology has been confirmed with skin prick testing, specific IgE and challenge tests (1-3).
Patients who complain of symptoms suggesting anaphylaxis should be tested for grapes (1).
In oncology, AFP-L3 is an isoform of Alpha-fetoprotein (AFP), a substance typically used in the triple test during pregnancy and for screening chronic liver disease patients for hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC).
AFP can be fractionated by affinity electrophoresis into 3 glycoforms: L1, L2, and L3 based on the reactivity with the lectin Lens culinaris agglutinin (LCA).
AFP-L3 binds strongly to LCA via an additional α 1-6 fucose residue attached at the reducing terminus of N-acetylglucosamine; this is in contrast to the L1 isoform.
It is the L1 isoform which is typically associated with non-HCC inflammation of liver disease condition.
The L3 isoform is specific to malignant tumors and its detected presence can serve to identify patients whom need increased monitoring for the development of HCC in high risk populations (i.e. chronic hepatitis B & C and/or liver cirrhosis).
AFP-L3% is now being considered as a tumor marker for the North American demographic.
A protein hormone secreted by beta cells of the pancreas.
Insulin plays a major role in the regulation of glucose metabolism, generally promoting the cellular utilization of glucose.
It is also an important regulator of protein and lipid metabolism.
Insulin is used as a drug to control insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus.
Balamuthia mandrillaris is an amoeba found in soil, dust, and water that causes cutaneous disease and granulomatous amebic encephalitis.
While infections with B. mandrillaris are rare, they have a high fatality rate (>90%).
Phosphogluconate dehydrogenase is an enzyme in the pentose phosphate pathway.
It forms ribulose 5-phosphate from 6-phosphogluconate.
Edible Onions are not known in the wild, but are grown only in cultivated beds.
The bulb can be eaten raw in salads, sandwich fillings, etc., or cooked or preserved in a variety of ways.
Fresh, dried, pickled, canned or even frozen, it is the most common flavouring in many cuisines.
The leaves, flowers and sprouted seeds are also eaten.
Onion can induce symptoms of food allergy, asthma, rhinoconjunctivitis, and contact dermatitis in sensitised individuals.
Onion is one of the commonest causes of contact dermatitis of the hands.
Hemoglobin Barts consists of four gamma chains.
It is moderately insoluble, and therefore accumulates in the red blood cells.
It has an extremely high affinity for oxygen, resulting in almost no oxygen delivery to the tissues.
It is produced in the disease alpha-thalassemia and in the most severe of cases, it is the only form of haemoglobin in circulation.
In this situation, a fetus will develop hydrops fetalis and normally die before or shortly after birth, unless intrauterine blood transfusion is performed.
Since Hemoglobin Barts is elevated in alpha thalassaemia, it can be measured, providing a useful screening test for this disease in some populations.
The ALDOB gene (aldolase B, fructose-bisphosphate) is located on chromosome 9q21.3-q22.2.
Fructose-1,6-bisphosphate aldolase is a tetrameric glycolytic enzyme that catalyzes the reversible conversion of fructose-1,6-bisphosphate to glyceraldehyde 3-phosphate and dihydroxyacetone phosphate.
Vertebrates have 3 aldolase isozymes which are distinguished by their electrophoretic and catalytic properties.
Differences indicate that aldolases A, B, and C are distinct proteins, the products of a family of related 'housekeeping' genes exhibiting developmentally regulated expression of the different isozymes.
The developing embryo produces aldolase A, which is produced in even greater amounts in adult muscle where it can be as much as 5% of total cellular protein.
In adult liver, kidney and intestine, aldolase A expression is repressed and aldolase B is produced.
In brain and other nervous tissue, aldolase A and C are expressed about equally.
There is a high degree of homology between aldolase A and C. Defects in ALDOB cause hereditary fructose intolerance.
Mucopolysaccharidosis type I (MPS I) is a condition that affects many parts of the body.
This disorder was once divided into three separate syndromes: Hurler syndrome (MPS I-H), Hurler-Scheie syndrome (MPS I-H/S), and Scheie syndrome (MPS I-S), listed from most to least severe.
Because there is so much overlap between each of these three syndromes, MPS I is currently divided into the severe and attenuated types.
Mutations in the IDUA gene cause MPS I.
The IDUA gene provides instructions for producing an enzyme that is involved in the breakdown of large sugar molecules called glycosaminoglycans (GAGs).
GAGs were originally called mucopolysaccharides, which is where this condition gets its name.
Mutations in the IDUA gene reduce or completely eliminate the function of the IDUA enzyme.
The lack of IDUA enzyme activity leads to the accumulation of GAGs within cells, specifically inside the lysosomes.
Lysosomes are compartments in the cell that digest and recycle different types of molecules.
Conditions that cause molecules to build up inside the lysosomes, including MPS I, are called lysosomal storage disorders.
The accumulation of GAGs increases the size of the lysosomes, which is why many tissues and organs are enlarged in this disorder.
This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations.
The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.
Hydrochloric acid present in GASTRIC JUICE.
There is a need to differentiate between Rye the foodstuff (Secale cereale), Cultivated Rye grass pollen (Secale cereale) g12, Rye grass pollen (Lolium perenne) g5, and Wild Rye grass pollen (Elymus tricoides) g70.
This distantly related genus, Elymus, contains species known as Wild Ryes, which are used as cover and for forage.
A Wheat hybrid is known as Giant Rye.
Rye and Rye flour may commonly induce symptoms of food allergy in sensitised individuals, in particular in bakers.
Symptoms may include asthma, rhinitis, sneezing and wheezing.
Food allergy with gastrointestinal symptoms, including nausea, vomiting, gastric irritation, abdominal pain and diarrhoea, has been reported.
Cutaneous symptoms may include pruritis, urticaria, dermatitis, atopic dermatitis and angioedema.
Anaphylaxis or vascular collapse with exercise has been documented.
Basophils are the least common of the granulocytes, representing about 0.5% to 1% of circulating white blood cells.
They contain large cytoplasmic granules which partially hide the cell nucleus when examined under the microscope.
However, when unstained, the nucleus is visible and it usually has 2 lobes.
A cell in tissues, the mast cell, has many similar characteristics.
For example, both cell types store histamine, a chemical that is secreted by the cells when stimulated in certain ways (histamine causes some of the symptoms of an allergic reaction).
Like all circulating granulocytes, basophils can be recruited out of the blood into a tissue when needed.
When activated, basophils secrete histamine, several proteoglycans, lipid mediators like leukotrienes, and several cytokines.
Histamine and proteoglycans are pre-stored in the cell's granules whereas the other secreted substances are newly synthesized.
Each of these substances contributes to inflammation.
Biochemical precursor substance from which the body synthesizes endomorphis.
Thyroid hormone uptake ("T-uptake") assays provide information on the number of thyroid hormone binding sites, consisting primarily of thyroid binding globulin, thyroxine binding prealbumin and albumin.
Since both T4 and T3 bind to these proteins, different assay formats have used either labeled T3 or T4 (the classic T3 resin uptake uses T3).
Various T-uptake assays can differ in the units reported (and even the phenomena being measured), requiring mindfulness when selecting LOINC codes.
Being used in the calculation of free T3 and free T4 index (FTI), the T-uptake variants also proliferate into variants of FTI.
The classic T-uptake reported as % represents the proportion of labeled thyroid hormone (either T3 or T4) added to a sample that remains unbound (modern assays: use LOINC 74793-1; T3 resin uptake method: 3050-2).
T-uptake reported as ratio of patient /control is known as thyroid hormone binding ratio, or THBR or T-uptake ratio (use LOINC 74794-9).
T-uptake % and THBR generally are inversely proportional to the number of unoccupied thyroid hormone binding sites present.
Alternative assay methods that report T-uptake as "T-uptake units" are described as being directly proportional to the total binding capacity (use LOINC 74795-6).
However, the major rationale for measuring the T-Uptake was to obtain a factor for estimating the free T4 (the biologically relevant fraction).
Now that Free T4 measures are widely available, accurate and more economical than measuring a T-uptake AND a TT4, use of the uptake has been discouraged by most experts.
Canada has taken the position of not paying for T-uptake measures.
Horse allergy occurs among people who regularly handle horses, either professionally or for recreational purposes, resulting in the induction or exacerbation of asthma, allergic rhinitis, allergic conjunctivitis and occupational asthma.
Horse allergy has also been reported to result in angioedema, respiratory distress, and poorly controlled asthma.
Malus domestica recombinant Mal d 4 is a member of the profilin family of allergens and associated with oral allergy syndrome (OAS) to apple.
It is a homologous protein to Bet v 2, which has been identified as a minor pollen sensitizer in approximately 10-30% of pollen-allergic individuals.
As with other profilins, Mal d 4 is highly thermolabile and rapidly enzyme degradable, accounting for its inability to elicit systemic reaction and its loss of allergenicity in cooked foods.
Primary sensitization to Mal d 4 develops through pollinosis and cross-reactivity to Bet v 2, and is not presumed to arise directly from apple ingestion without previous sensitization to birch or grass profilin.
Veterinary Medicine: Sulfadimethoxine is a long-acting sulfonamide antibiotic that is used to treat skin and soft tissue infections caused by strains of staphylococcus aureus and escherichia coli and urinary tract infections caused by Escherichia coli, Staphylococcus, and Proteus mirabilis.
When used in a 5 to 1 ratio with the antibiotic Ormetoprim, the combination increases the strength of Sulfadimethoxine's properties of fighting infection and reduces the resistance rate the bacteria might have against the antibiotic by blocking the bacteria's metabolism of folic acid, depriving the bacteria of folate coenzymes.
Some fungi are called yeast-like because they exist as a yeast for part of their life cycle, but can be hyphal for a significant portion of it.
© Copyright 1999 by Thomas J. Volk, University of Wisconsin-La Crosse.
Found on some thymocytes and a few mature circulating T-cells Associated with rare mature T-cell neoplasms and some lymphoblastic lymphomas
Zinc protoporphyrin is a test used to detect exposure to lead.
Elevated Zinc protoporphyrins (ZPP) results are seen in both early and late iron deficiency, the anemia of chronic disease erythropoietic protoporphyria, and chronic lead poisoning.
Patients with lead poisoning will also have elevated plasma and urine delta aminolevulinic acid and increased urine coproporphyrin.
Urinary porphobilinogen and uroporphyrin are normal to slightly increased.
Skin contamination may cause false increases.
Test should be used in conjunction with blood lead levels.
Methylenedioxypyrovalerone (MDPV) is an abusable, psychoactive drug with stimulant properties which acts as a norepinephrine-dopamine reuptake inhibitor.
First developed in 1969, it remained an obscure stimulant until around 2004 when it was reportedly sold as a designer drug.
It is also known as Cloud 9, MDPK, MTV, Magic, Maddie, Black Rob, Super Coke, PV and Peeve.
Products labeled as bath salts containing MDPV are sold as recreational drugs in gas stations and convenience stores, similar to the marketing for Spice and K2 as incense.
MDPV has no record of FDA approved medical use.
MDPV may be quantitated in blood, plasma or urine by gas chromatography-mass spectrometry or liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry to confirm a diagnosis of poisoning in hospitalized patients or to provide evidence in a medicolegal death investigation.
Blood or plasma MDPV concentrations are expected to be in a range of 10-50 μg/L in persons using the drug recreationally, >50 μg/L in intoxicated patients and >300 μg/L in victims of acute overdosage.
Methyl tert-butyl ether, also known as methyl tertiary butyl ether and MTBE, is a chemical compound with molecular formula C5H12O. MTBE is a volatile, flammable and colorless liquid that is immiscible with water.
MTBE has a minty odor vaguely reminiscent of diethyl ether, leading to unpleasant taste and odor in water.
MTBE is a gasoline additive, used as an oxygenate and to raise the octane number, although its use has declined in the United States in response to environmental and health concerns.
It has been found to easily pollute large quantities of groundwater when gasoline with MTBE is spilled or leaked at gas stations.
MTBE is also used in organic chemistry as a relatively inexpensive solvent with properties comparable to diethyl ether but with a higher boiling point and lower solubility in water.
It is also used medically to dissolve gallstones.
A spice, which may result in allergy symptoms in sensitised individuals.
Caraway is thought to be native to Central Europe and Asia; but it is not clear whether the spice is truly indigenous to Europe.
Today, it is chiefly cultivated in the Netherlands, Eastern Europe and Germany, and also North Africa, particularly Egypt.
Anecdotal evidence suggests that Caraway may induce symptoms of food allergy in sensitised individuals; however, few studies have been reported to date.
Pargyline (Eutonyl) is a monoamine oxidase B (MAO-B) inhibitor.
It has antihypertensive effects.
White willow bark is used in traditional medicine for pain relief.
People with salicylate allergy may have an allergic reaction to white willow, which contains salicin.
Siderophages, also known as erythrophages, are macrophages that have taken up erythrocytes by phagocytosis.
The siderophages convert hemoglobin iron from the ingested erythrocytes to hemosiderin, a coarsely granular iron-protein complex.
The presence of siderophages in CSF indicates hemorrhage into the fluid prior to sample collection.
They have a prolonged life span, remaining in the fluid up to four months.
A Histiocyte is a cell that is part of the human immune system.
All categories of Histiocytes are derived from the bone marrow by multiplication from a stem cell.
The derived cells migrate from the bone marrow to the blood as monocytes.
They circulate through the body and stop in various organs where they undergo differentiation into histiocytes which are part of the mononuclear phagocyte system (MPS).
The number of days of the week the patient consumed alcohol.
Sudan grass, (Sorghum bicolor subsp.
drummondii), is a species of grass raised for forage and grain, native to tropical and subtropical regions of Eastern Africa.
The plant is cultivated in Southern Europe, South America, Central America, North America and Southern Asia, for forage or as a cover crop.
Paprika is a spice made from the grinding of dried fruits of Capsicum annuum (e.g., bell peppers or chili peppers).
In many European languages, the word paprika also refers to bell peppers themselves.
The seasoning is used in many cuisines to add color and flavor to dishes.
Paprika can range from sweet (mild, not hot) to spicy (hot).
Flavors also vary from country to country.
Urease is an enzyme that catalyzes the hydrolysis of urea into carbon dioxide and ammonia.
The reaction occurs as follows: (NH2)2 CO + H2 O †' CO2 + 2NH3.
Urease is found in bacteria, yeast and several higher plants.
An exceptional urease is found in Helicobacter pylori, which combines four of the regular six subunit enzymes in an overall tetrahedral assembly of 24 subunits (Î±12 12).
A section to capture the company's communication plan for standardizing the risk evaluation and mitigation strategies (REMS) information for inclusion into pharmacy systems.
o-Anisidine is a yellow liquid with melting point -1 to 5 °C and density 1.09 g/cm³. The vapor pressure is 0.05 mbar at 20 °C but increases greatly with temperature.
It has an aromatic smell and is well absorbed by inhalation, oral ingestion and skin contact.
2-Anisidine is a very toxic agent that causes blood, enzyme and nerve damage with cyanosis and the danger of suffocation.
The agent is an experimental carcinogen and is strongly suspected to be also a human carcinogen.
2-Anisidine has dangerous pollutant properties for water.
The SGSH gene (N-sulfoglucosamine sulfohydrolase) is located on chromosome 17q25.3.
This gene encodes one of several enzymes involved in the lysosomal degradation of heparan sulfate.
Mutations in this gene are associated with Sanfilippo syndrome A, one type of the lysosomal storage disease mucopolysaccaridosis III, which results from impaired degradation of heparan sulfate.
Transcripts of varying sizes have been reported but their biological validity has not been determined.
A dideoxynucleoside analog that inhibits reverse transcriptase and has in vitro activity against HIV.
Medium chain triglycerides (MCTs) are partially man-made fats generally made by processing coconut and palm kernel oils in the laboratory.
"Medium" refers to the chain length of the fatty acids.
Oils can contain short chain, medium chain, or long chain fatty acids and most oils are a combination of all three types.
Medium chain fatty acids contain between 6 and 12 carbon chains.
They are: C6 caproic acid, C8 caprylic acid, C10 capric acid, and C12 lauric acid.
MCTs passively diffuse from the GI tract to the portal system without requirement for modification like long-chain fatty acids or very-long-chain fatty acids.
MCTs do not require bile salts for digestion.
Patients who have malnutrition, malabsorption or particular fatty-acid metabolism disorders are treated with MCTs, as MCTs do not require energy for absorption, use, or storage.
They have potentially beneficial attributes in protein metabolism, but may be contraindicated in some situations due to a reported tendency to induce ketogenesis and metabolic acidosis.
Hemochromatosis (HFE) gene mutation analysis confirms the diagnosis of hereditary hemochromatosis (HH) when serum transferrin-iron saturation results are elevated.
HH is the most common autosomal recessive disease in the Caucasian population.
HH causes excess iron absorption that leads to iron deposits in tissues and organs, eventually leading to organ dysfunction and failure.
HH can also cause cirrhosis, hepatomas, diabetes, cardiomyopahty, arthritis, and hypogonadotrophic hypogonadism.
Mean platelet dry mass (MPM) (also called mean platelet mass) is a calculated parameter and may correlate with the platelet functional status.
MPM is one of the platelet indices useful for the differential diagnosis of thrombocytosis.
The K88 adhesin is one of the virulence factors associated with post weaning diarrhea (PWD) in swine and is encoded by multiple genes.
which leads to watery diarrhea, dehydration, loss of body weight, and occasionally death.
EC adheres to the small intestine using adhesin factors, and produces one or more exotoxins that induce fluid and electrolyte secretion.
ortho-Cresol, also 2-methylphenol, is a phenol, with formula (CH3)C6H4(OH).
It is an isomer of p-cresol, m-cresol and anisole
Proteins of the matrix metalloproteinase (MMP) family are involved in the breakdown of extracellular matrix in normal physiological processes, such as embryonic development, reproduction, and tissue remodeling, as well as in disease processes, such as arthritis and metastasis.
Most MMP's are secreted as inactive proproteins which are activated when cleaved by extracellular proteinases.
This gene encodes an enzyme which degrades type IV collagen, the major structural component of basement membranes.
The enzyme plays a role in endometrial menstrual breakdown, regulation of vascularization and the inflammatory response.
Mutations in this gene have been associated with Winchester syndrome and Nodulosis-Arthropathy-Osteolysis (NAO) syndrome.
Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
Saturated phosphatidylcholine is a reliable antenatal predictor of fetal pulmonary maturity useful in the management of neonatal respiratory distress syndrome.
1-Hydroxymidazolam is an active metabolite of the drug midazolam (known by the brand names Dormicum, Hypnovel, and Versed).
Although the metabolite is active, it is found in much smaller concentrations than the parent.
Midazolam is metabolized by cytochrome C450 3A (CYP3A) primarily to 1-Hydroxymidazolam, but also in smaller amounts to 4-Hydroxymedazolam and also the 1,4 Dihydroxy form.
Determining the conversion kinetics of midazolam has been proposed for CYP3A phenotyoing.
A narcotic analgesic used to relieve moderate to severe pain, including postoperative pain and the pain of labor.
Prolonged use may lead to dependence of the morphine type; withdrawal symptoms appear more rapidly than with morphine but are of shorter duration.
C-C motif chemokine 17 (CCL17) belongs to the family of cytokines, a group of secreted proteins involved in immunoregulatory and inflammatory processes.
CCL17 is also known as thymus and activation regulated chemokine (TARC).
It plays an important role in T cell development in thymus as well as in trafficking and activation of mature T cells.
Ye et al. (2015) found that serum CCL17 levels are associated with CAD and atherosclerosis severity independently of traditional cardiovascular risk factors.
Casein is a major allergen in milk and the main protein constituent in cheese.
IgE-antibodies to casein are common in milk-sensitized patients.
A glucose tolerance test is a medical test in which glucose is given and blood samples taken afterward to determine how quickly it is cleared from the blood.
The test is usually used to test for diabetes, insulin resistance, and sometimes reactive hypoglycemia and acromegaly, or rarer disorders of carbohydrate metabolism.
In the most commonly performed version of the test, an oral glucose tolerance test (OGTT), a standard dose of glucose is ingested by mouth and blood levels are checked two hours later.
Many variations of the GTT have been devised over the years for various purposes, with different standard doses of glucose, different routes of administration, different intervals and durations of sampling, and various substances measured in addition to blood glucose.
The FKTN gene (fukutin) is located on chromosome 9q31.2.
The protein encoded by this gene is a putative transmembrane protein that is localized to the cis-Golgi compartment, where it may be involved in the glycosylation of alpha-dystroglycan in skeletal muscle.
The encoded protein is thought to be a glycosyltransferase and could play a role in brain development.
Defects in this gene are a cause of Fukuyama-type congenital muscular dystrophy (FCMD), Walker-Warburg syndrome (WWS), limb-girdle muscular dystrophy type 2M (LGMD2M), and dilated cardiomyopathy type 1X (CMD1X).
Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been found for this gene.
A synthetic fluoroquinolone (FLUOROQUINOLONES) with broad-spectrum antibacterial activity against most gram-negative and gram-positive bacteria.
Norfloxacin inhibits bacterial DNA GYRASE.
A crystal or crystalline solid is a material composed of atoms, molecules, or ions arranged in a spatial, orderly, repeating pattern.
The scientific study of crystals and crystal formation is crystallography.
The process of crystal formation is crystallization.
An intravenous anesthetic with a short duration of action that may be used for induction of anesthesia.
Oseltamivir (INN) is an antiviral drug that slows the spread of influenza virus between cells in the body by stopping the virus from chemically cutting ties with its host cell-median time to symptom alleviation is reduced by 0.5-1 day.
The drug is sold under the trade name Tamiflu and is taken orally in capsules or as a suspension.
It has been used to treat and prevent Influenzavirus A and Influenzavirus B infection.
Convergence is the simultaneous inward movement of both eyes toward each other in order to maintain fixation on an object.
Progress Note documents a patient's clinical status during a hospitalization or outpatient visit; thus, it is associated with an encounter.
Taber's medical dictionary defines a Progress Note as "An ongoing record of a patient's illness and treatment.
Physicians, nurses, consultants, and therapists record their notes concerning the progress or lack of progress made by the patient between the time of the previous note and the most recent note.
Mosby's medical dictionary defines a Progress Note as "Notes made by a nurse, physician, social worker, physical therapist, and other health care professionals that describe the patient's condition and the treatment given or planned.
A Progress Note is not a re-evaluation note.
A Progress Note is not intended to be a Progress Report for Medicare.
Medicare B Section 1833e defines the requirements of a Medicare Progress Report.
Zika virus (ZIKV) is an arthropod-borne virus classified in the Flavivirus genus within the Falviviridae family 1.
Flaviviruses include yellow fever virus, dengue virus, West Nile virus, St. Louis encephalitis virus and the Japanese encephalitis viruses.
The genome of Flaviviruses is a single positive-strand RNA that is translated to produce a polyprotein that upon cleavage produces several proteins including the two major structural proteins (E and M).
The "envelope E gene" and the "envelope M gene" correspond to the viral RNA regions that encode the E protein and the M protein.
The virus envelope consists of a lipid bilayer derived from the host cell and 180 copies of M and E proteins arranged as 90 anti-parallel homodimers.
N-linked glycosylation of the E protein may play a significant role in the pathogenicity of the virus.
Further functional studies are needed to prove this hypothesis.
The ACADS gene (acyl-CoA dehydrogenase, C-2 to C-3 short chain) is located on chromosome 12q24.31.
This gene encodes a tetrameric mitochondrial flavoprotein, which is a member of the acyl-CoA dehydrogenase family.
This enzyme catalyzes the initial step of the mitochondrial fatty acid beta-oxidation pathway.
Mutations in this gene have been associated with short-chain acyl-CoA dehydrogenase (SCAD) deficiency.
Alternative splicing results in two variants which encode different isoforms.
Moxifloxacin is a synthetic fluoroquinolone antibiotic agent.
Bayer AG developed the drug (initially called BAY 12-8039)
and it is marketed worldwide (as the hydrochloride) under the brand name Avelox® (in some countries also Avalox®) for oral treatment.
Each tablet contains 400mg.
In most countries the drug is also available in parenteral form for intravenous infusion.
Asp f 2 is also a major allergen, with sensitisation to this allergen occurring in more than 90% of A. fumigatus-sensitised individuals.
Similar to Asp f 1, sensitisation may vary depending on the underlying disease: in a study of 25 patients with ABPA, 96% had IgE antibodies directed against Asp f 2, whereas none of the normal control subjects, or the subjects with allergic asthma who had positive results on the skin-prick test, had a reaction.
In iris transillumination, retroillumination of the iris can demonstrate absence of pigment in the iris.
The severity of this finding is subjectively determined by the observer.
An antiarrhythmia agent used primarily for ventricular rhythm disturbances.
American tick bite fever (also known as "Rickettsia parkeri infection") is a condition that may be characterized by a rash of maculopapules.
Cayenne pepper is used in many exotic, spicy food dishes to add more spice.
Someone with a cayenne pepper allergy should avoid consuming or coming into direct contact with the substance as it could lead to a life-threatening reaction.
Phenethylamine (PEA) is a natural monoamine alkaloid, trace amine, and psychoactive drug with stimulant effects.
In the mammalian central nervous system, phenethylamine is believed to function as a neuromodulator or neurotransmitter.
It is biosynthesized from the amino acid phenylalanine by enzymatic decarboxylation.
Besides mammals, phenethylamine is found in many other organisms and foods such as chocolate, especially after microbial fermentation.
It is sold as a dietary supplement for purported mood and weight loss-related therapeutic benefits; however, orally ingested phenethylamine is usually inactive on account of extensive first-pass metabolism by monoamine oxidase (MAO) into phenylacetic acid, preventing significant concentrations from reaching the brain.
N-Alpha-acetyllysine is a N-acetylated amino acid.
It is a normal constituent of human urine with concentrations in normal samples too small to allow its routine detection; however, it has been found at increased levels in the urine of a patient with aminoacylase I deficiency.
A species of gram-negative bacteria, primarily infecting SWINE, but it can also infect humans, DOGS, and HARES.
The Queen palm is a graceful, fast-growing Palm, native to Brazil, Paraguay and northern Argentina.
It is now often found planted in courtyards, rows or groves in tropical climates all over the world.
It is popular because it does not drop litter as Fan and Date palms do.
Anecdotal evidence suggests that asthma, allergic rhinitis and allergic conjunctivitis, similar to reactions caused by other members of this family, are possible following exposure to pollen from this tree; however, few specific studies have been reported to date.
The NIPBL gene (Nipped-B homolog (Drosophila)) is located on chromosome 5p13.2.
This gene encodes the homolog of the Drosophila melanogaster Nipped-B gene product and fungal Scc2-type sister chromatid cohesion proteins.
The Drosophila protein facilitates enhancer-promoter communication of remote enhancers and plays a role in developmental regulation.
It is also homologous to a family of chromosomal adherins with broad roles in sister chromatid cohesion, chromosome condensation, and DNA repair.
The human protein has a bipartite nuclear targeting sequence and a putative HEAT repeat.
Condensins, cohesins and other complexes with chromosome-related functions also contain HEAT repeats.
Mutations in this gene result in Cornelia de Lange syndrome, a disorder characterized by dysmorphic facial features, growth delay, limb reduction defects, and mental retardation.
Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
Guanine is a purine, a group of molecules used by all cells of the body for many essential biochemical processes including enzymatic reactions, cofactor-requiring reactions, synthesis of DNA or RNA, and signaling transduction and translation.
Disorders of purine metabolism occur at any age and involve various organ systems.
Diagnosis of purine (and pyrimidine) metabolism disorders is based upon the clinical presentation and evaluation of purine and pyrimidine metabolite concentration patterns.
Confirmatory enzyme assays and/or molecular genetic testing are peformed to confirm a diagnosis.
Several types of disorders of purine metabolism include adenylosuccinate lyase (ADSL) deficiency, hypoxanthine-guanine phosphoribosyltransferase (HPRT) deficiency, myoadenylate deaminase (mAMPD) deficiency and Adenosine deaminase deficiency (ADD).
Pyrazole refers both to the class of simple aromatic ring organic compounds of the heterocyclic series characterized by a 5-membered ring structure composed of three carbon atoms and two nitrogen atoms in adjacent positions, and to the unsubstituted parent compound
Globotriaosylceramide is a ganglioside.
It is also known as "ceramide trihexoside".
It is also known as "CD77".
It is one of the few clusters of differentiation that is not a protein.
It is formed by A4GALT and is metabolized by Alpha-galactosidase.
Defects in the enzyme alpha-galactosidase lead to the build up of globotriaosylceramide, and this is the cause of Fabry's disease.
Globotriaosylceramide is also the one of the targets of Shiga toxin, which is responsible for pathogenicity of Escherichia coli.
Brachyspira hampsonii is a strongly beta-hemolytic gram negative spirochete that is provisionally classified as a species of Brachyspira and, like other Brachyspira species, causes swine dysentery (SD).
Infection of B. hampsonii in pigs causes mucohemorrhagic diarrhea.
B. hampsonii is also found in species of waterfowl, including feral ducks and geese.
It is susceptible to tiamulin, valnemulin and carbadox.
B. hampsonii can be distinguished from other species of Brachyspira by using 16S rRNA and nox gene sequencing.
B. hampsonii does infect humans causing diarrhea and/or colitis.
This grass is native to and widespread in western North America, from Washington State to California and east to Montana.
Wild Rye grass pollen can induce asthma, allergic rhinitis and allergic conjunctivitis.
Clot retraction is the "shrinking" of a blood clot over a number of days.
In so doing, the edges of the blood vessel wall at the point of injury are slowly brought together again to repair the damage.
Clot retraction is dependent on release of multiple coagulation factors from platelets trapped in the fibrin mesh of the clot.
Thus, failure to retract can be a sign of thrombocytopenia or a rare condition called thrombasthenia.
Muromonab-CD3 (trade name Orthoclone OKT3) is an immunosuppressant drug given to reduce acute rejection in patients with organ transplants.
It is a monoclonal antibody targeted at the CD3 receptor, a membrane protein on the surface of T cells.
It was the first monoclonal antibody to be approved for clinical use in humans.
Used for monitoring acute phase reactions such as inflammatory conditions, rheumatoid arthritis, and malignant neoplasms.
Latex that is used industrially is obtained from the Hevea brasiliensis rubber tree.
(Hev b) 2 is 35 kilodaltons and is a 1,3 glucanase enzyme that acts as a defense for the plant.
(Hev b) 2 is one of four latex antigens found to elicite a positive allergic response in greater than 60% of patients with latex allergies.
The BCHE gene (butyrylcholinesterase) is located on chromosome 3q26.1-q26.2.
Mutant alleles at the BCHE locus are responsible for suxamethonium sensitivity.
Homozygous persons sustain prolonged apnea after administration of the muscle relaxant suxamethonium in connection with surgical anesthesia.
The activity of pseudocholinesterase in the serum is low and its substrate behavior is atypical.
In the absence of the relaxant, the homozygote is at no known disadvantage.
Meprobamate is an anti-anxiety medication often used as a sedative and muscle relaxant.
Meprobamate is taken orally and may be administered on its own or in combination with other drugs such as, aceprometazine, quinine, or ergotamine, caffeine and chlorcyclizine.
Risk of meprobamate overdose is a concern and has resulted in updated supporting literature and reduced the number of pills dispensed.
Anti-PM-SCL antibodies (75kD and 100 kD) are anti-nuclear antibodies present in patients with polymyositis (PM), systemic sclerosis (SSc), and PM/SSc overlap syndromes.
The PM-SCL antibodies are directed mainly against the 75kD antigen.
The T184I mutation is associated with Entecavir resistance
Pseudorabies virus (PRV) is an endemic disease in swine.
PRV is also known as suid herpesvirus 1 or Aujeszky's disease virus.
The virus is spread through contact with the saliva and nasal secretions of infected swine.
Secondary hosts of pseudorabies includes dogs, cats, cattle, rats, and horses (via direct contact with swine).
Symptoms of infection are similar to rabies in dogs.
A swine vaccine for pseudorabies is available.
3-Hydroxysebacic acid is a normal urinary 3-hydroxydicarboxylic acid metabolite and can be elevated in patients with peroxisomal disorders such as Zellweger syndrome.
Marked elevation of urinary 3- Hydroxysebacic acid has also been described in a malnourished infant with glycogen storage disease, mimicking long-chain L-3-hydroxyacyl-CoA dehydrogenase deficiency, a defect in the beta-oxidation of fatty acids characterized by massive excretion of 3-hydroxydicarboxylic acids in the urine and accumulation of 3-hydroxy fatty acids in serum)., , .
Curled Dock (Rumex crispus), also known as Curly Dock, Yellow Dock, Sour Dock, Narrow Dock, sometimes as "narrow-leaved dock" (which properly refers to a variant of Sorrel), and ambiguously as "garden patience", is a perennial flowering plant in the family Polygonaceae, native to Europe and western Asia.
PKD1 gene+PKD2 gene for polycystic kidney disease gene mutation.
Levorphanol is an opioid medication used to treat severe pain.
The medication has a known abuse potential.
In addition to acting on opioid receptors, it also acts on NMDA receptors.
Typical doses include 2 mg by mouth or subcutaneous injection every 6 to 8 hours.
It is related to dextromethorphan, an antitussive which is not an opioid.
Dextromethorphan is a salt of the methyl ether dextrorotatory isomer of levorphanol.
Etafedrine (INN) or ethylephedrine is a long-acting bronchodilator and has the brand name Nethaprin.
Species of tapeworm in the genus TAENIA, that infects cattle.
It is acquired by humans through the ingestion of raw or insufficiently cooked beef.
Rubidium is a chemical element in the periodic table that has the symbol Rb and atomic number 37.
Rb is a soft, silvery-white metallic element of the alkali metal group.
Rb-87, a naturally occurring isotope, is (slightly) radioactive.
Rubidium is very soft and highly reactive, with properties similar to other elements in group 1, like rapid oxidation in air.
Phospholipase A2 (PLA2) is one of the major allergens in honeybee venom.
The natural range of the honeybee is thought to be Africa, Europe and the Middle East for A. mellifera and Japan, India and Indochina for A. cerona.
Honeybees have been domesticated and spread throughout the world.
A protozoan parasite that occurs primarily in subtropical and temperate areas.
It is the causal agent of quartan malaria.
As the parasite grows it exhibits little ameboid activity.
Cri-du-chat syndrome (5p- or 5p minus syndrome) is caused by a deletion of the end of the short (p) arm of chromosome 5.
The size of the deletion varies among affected individuals; studies suggest that larger deletions tend to result in more severe intellectual disability and developmental delay than smaller deletions.
The signs and symptoms of cri-du-chat syndrome are probably related to the loss of multiple genes on the short arm of chromosome 5.
Studies also show that the loss of a specific gene, CTNND2, is associated with severe intellectual disability in some people with this condition.
Most cases of cri-du-chat syndrome are not inherited; the deletion occurs as a random or de novo event.
About 10 percent of patients with 5p- inherit the chromosome abnormality from an unaffected parent who carries a balance chromosomal translocation, in which no genetic material is gained or lost.
Food allergen mix 25 (fx25) contains celery, garlic, sesame seed and yeast IgE antibodies.
Testing for IgE antibodies may be used to help diagnose an allergic disease or the cause of an anaphylactic episode in a patient.
Enzyme and fluorescent-based assays, which were preceded by the RAST test (Radio-AllergoSorbent Test), are performed to detect allergen-specific IgE in the patient's serum.
Bilirubin is an orange-yellow pigment produced by the normal breakdown of heme, a component of the hemoglobin found in red blood cells.
It is processed by the liver and excreted in bile.
Conditions that cause red blood cell breakdown or interfere with liver or bile processing can cause elevated levels of bilirubin.
Bilirubin exists in many forms.
Non-glucuronidated bilirubin (also called unconjugated or indirect) is the breakdown product of heme and is not water-soluble.
Hemolytic anemias, which cause increased red blood cell breakdown, are one cause of elevated non-glucuronidated bilirubin.
Glucuronidated bilirubin (also called conjugated) is a water-soluble form of bilirubin that is made in the liver by the addition of sugar molecules to non-glucuronidated bilirubin.
Conditions that affect liver function (such as hepatitis, cirrhosis and liver tumors) or physically block the bile ducts (such as gallstones) can cause elevated levels of glucuronidated bilirubin.
A third form of bilirubin is that which is bound to albumin, and it is also known as delta bilirubin because it was originally identified based on the unexpected difference between the total bilirubin level and the level of glucuronidated plus non-glucuronidated bilirubin in some patient samples.
Prior to the discovery of albumin-bound bilirubin, the term "direct" bilirubin was used as a synonym for glucuronidated bilirubin, but direct bilirubin is actually glucuronidated plus delta bilirubin (bilirubin covalently bound to albumin).
The TNFRSF13B gene (tumor necrosis factor receptor superfamily, member 13B) is located on chromosome 17p11.2.
The protein encoded by this gene, transmembrane activator and calcium modulator and cyclophilin ligand interactor (TACI), is a lymphocyte-specific member of the tumor necrosis factor (TNF) receptor superfamily.
It interacts with calcium-modulator and cyclophilin ligand (CAML).
The protein induces activation of the transcription factors NFAT, AP1, and NF-kappa-B and plays a crucial role in humoral immunity by interacting with a TNF ligand.
This gene is located within the Smith-Magenis syndrome region on chromosome 17.
The GNMT gene (glycine N-methyltransferase) is located on chromosome 6p12.
The protein encoded by this gene is an enzyme that catalyzes the conversion of S-adenosyl-L-methionine (along with glycine) to S-adenosyl-L-homocysteine and sarcosine.
The encoded protein is found in the cytoplasm and acts as a homotetramer.
Defects in this gene are a cause of GNMT deficiency (hypermethioninemia).
A respiratory virus, such as respiratory syncytial virus, that infects the lungs and breathing passages.
Sodium benzoate is an antimicribial agent, flavoring agent and adjuvant in food.
Baylisascaris is a genus of roundworms found in raccoons and other animals, and people.
Baylisascaris tests can be performed on serum and CSF.
ELISA and Western blot testing methods are available.
Baylisascaris testing may be part of the etiology workup for Chorioretinitis (CR) which is an inflammatory process that involves the uveal tract of the eye.
Methylglutarylcarnitine is a primary marker for is a secondary marker for Very long-chain acyl-CoA dehydrogenase deficiency.
Used to diagnose hereditary hypo α1-antitrypsin (α1AT).
An increased prevalence of non-MM phenotypes is found with cryptogenic cirrhosis and with CAH.
Cirrhosis in a child should raise consideration of α1AT deficiency or Wilson's disease.
Diagnosis of inflammatory states, if elevated (eg, rheumatoid arthritis, bacterial infection, vasculitis, neoplasia).
Alpha 1-antitrypsin or α1-antitrypsin (A1AT) is a serine protease inhibitor (serpin).
It protects tissue from enzymes from inflammatory cells, especially elastase, and is present in human blood at 1.5 - 3.5 gram liter.
Spruce refers to trees of the genus Picea, a genus of about 35 species of coniferous evergreen trees in the Family Pinaceae, indigenous to the Northern Hemisphere.
They are similar to the Fir genus.
They can be distinguished by their whorled branches and conical form.
Spruce trees are native to northern Europe, from Scandinavia to the Alps.
Anecdotal evidence suggests that asthma and hayfever are possible following exposure to pollen from this tree; however, few specific studies on this have been reported to date.
Occupational asthma, lung function deficits, and elevated levels of respiratory symptoms in workers exposed to the wood dust have been demonstrated.
Neurons (also known as neurones, nerve cells and nerve fibers) are a major class of cells (parenchyma) in the nervous system whose main role is to process and transmit information.
In vertebrate animals, neurons are found in the brain, the spinal cord and in the nerves and ganglia of the peripheral nervous system.
Neurons are typically composed of a cell body, a dendritic tree and an axon.
In the classic view of neuron function, the cell body and dendritic tree receive electrical signals from other neurons while the axon transmits electrical output signals.
Neurons are able to generate and propagate electrical impulses because they have excitable membranes.
Neurons make connections with other neurons and transmit information to them via synaptic transmission.
Different types of neurons have different shapes, possess specific electrical properties adopted for their function and use different neurotransmitters.
Chitotriosidase is secreted by activated human macrophages and is markedly elevated in plasma of Gaucher disease patients.
The expression of chitotriosidase occurs only at a late stage of differentiation of monocytes to activated macrophages in culture.
Human macrophages can synthesize a functional chitotriosidase, a highly conserved enzyme with a strongly regulated expression.
This enzyme may play a role in the degradation of chitin-containing pathogens.
Several alternatively spliced transcript variants have been described for the CHIT1 gene, which encodes this enzyme.
JAK2 is a protein tyrosine kinase that adds a phosphate group to many cellular proteins responsible for signal transduction in a variety of cells.
The V617F point mutation causes the activation of these pathways, leading to uncontrolled cell proliferation, resulting in myeloproliferative disorders.
This mutation is seen in most patients with polycythemia vera and about half of the patients with essential thromobcytopenia and idiopathic myelofibrosis.
Mutation has also been found in some patients with Philadelphia chromosome negative chronic myelogenous leukemia (CML), chronic myelomonocytic leukemia (CMML), chronic neutrophilic leukemia, megakaryocytic leukemia, and some patients with myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS).
A plant genus of the family STERCULIACEAE.
This is the source of the kola nut which contains CAFFEINE and is used in popular beverages.
Hepatitis C virus NS3 mutations are associated with protease inhibitors resisitance.
Mullerian inhibiting substance (MIS) is a gonadal hormone responsible for inducing the degeneration of the Mullerian ducts in male embryogenesis and assists in female egg maturation and release.
This glycoprotein ensures that males do not develop a female reproductive tract during their early development and is crucial for females during childbirth.
In males, MIS is stored in Sertoli cells in the testes and are released in order to differentiate cells and regulate reproductive tract growth.
The MIS content in the blood may be measured in both females and infant boys.
The MIS blood content is measured in male infants that have ambiguous genitalia or improperly formed testicles.
The MIS blood content in females may be measured to predict menopause or time left to conceive.
An HIV protease inhibitor which acts as an analog of an HIV protease cleavage site.
It is a highly specific inhibitor of HIV-1 and HIV-2 proteases.
Gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) is an inhibitory neurotransmitter found in the nervous systems of widely divergent species.
It is the chief inhibitory neurotransmitter in the vertebrate central nervous system.
In vertebrates, GABA acts at inhibitory synapses in the brain.
Cefotaxime is a third generation cephalosporin, with activity similar to ceftizoxime and cefotaxime.
It is used in the treatment of respiratory tract infections, skin and skin structure, bone and joint, urinary tract, gynecologic as well as septicemia, and meningitis.
It is effective against most gram-negative bacilli (not Pseudomonas) and gram-positive cocci (not enterococcus) and against many penicillin-resistant pneumococci.
Semi-synthetic derivative of penicillin that functions as an orally active broad-spectrum antibiotic.
C-X-C chemokine receptor type 5 (CXCR5) also known as Burkitt lymphoma receptor 1 (BLR1) is a G protein-coupled seven transmembrane receptor for chemokine CXCL13 (also known as BLC) and belongs to the CXC chemokine receptor family.
The BLR1 / CXCR5 gene is specifically expressed in Burkitt's lymphoma and lymphatic tissues, such as follicles in lymph nodes as well as in spleen.
The gene plays an essential role in B cell migration.
CXCR5 has also recently been designated CD185 (cluster of differentiation 185).
Adenylsuccinic acid is a substrate of the enzyme adenylosuccinase in purine metabolism pathway.
The accumulation of adenylsuccinic acid in body fluids occurs due to a deficiency of adenylosuccinase, an enzyme that plays an important role in purine biosynthesis.
Patients with adenylosuccinase deficiency (ADLSD) present with severe psychomotor delay, hypotonia, growth deficiency, autism, and mild facial dysmorphic features, including brachycephaly, prominent metopic sutures, a small nose and low-set ears.
The MPL gene (MPL proto-oncogene, thrombopoietin receptor) is located on chromosome 1p34.
In 1990 an oncogene, v-mpl, was identified from the murine myeloproliferative leukemia virus that was capable of immortalizing bone marrow hematopoietic cells from different lineages.
In 1992 the human homologue, named, c-mpl, was cloned.
Sequence data revealed that c-mpl encoded a protein that was homologous with members of the hematopoietic receptor superfamily.
Presence of anti-sense oligodeoxynucleotides of c-mpl inhibited megakaryocyte colony formation.
The ligand for c-mpl, thrombopoietin, was cloned in 1994.
Thrombopoietin was shown to be the major regulator of megakaryocytopoiesis and platelet formation.
The protein encoded by the c-mpl gene, CD110, is a 635 amino acid transmembrane domain, with two extracellular cytokine receptor domains and two intracellular cytokine receptor box motifs.
TPO-R deficient mice were severely thrombocytopenic, emphasizing the important role of CD110 and thrombopoietin in megakaryocyte and platelet formation.
Upon binding of thrombopoietin CD110 is dimerized and the JAK family of non-receptor tyrosine kinases, as well as the STAT family, the MAPK family, the adaptor protein Shc and the receptors themselves become tyrosine phosphorylated.
A unicyclic, aminoketone antidepressant.
The mechanism of its therapeutic actions is not well understood, but it does appear to block dopamine uptake.
The hydrochloride is available as an aid to smoking cessation treatment.
A serotype of Salmonella enterica that is a frequent agent of Salmonella gastroenteritis in humans.
It also causes PARATYPHOID FEVER.
The Interleukins belong to the family termed cytokines.
They are peptides used by immune and inflammatory cells to communicate and control cell operations.
The cytokines have some similar actions to the Growth Factors but Growth Factors regulate proliferation of non-immune cells.
Interleukin 4 is a 20,000 molecular weight glycoprotein originally called T Cell Growth Factor along with Interleukin 2.
It is released primarily by activated T Cells and mast cells.
Its primary target cells are T and B cells, macrophage/monocytes, and mast cells.
Interleukin 4 activates B cell differentiation and immunoglobulins prior to action of Interleukin 6.
It is also a co-stimulator along with anti-immunoglobulin antibodies of B cell proliferation.
Interleukin 4 is bound to receptors located on activated T cells, resting and activated B cells, macrophages, and mast cells.
Pancuronium (Pavulon) is a muscle relaxant with various purposes.
It is the second of the three drugs administered during a lethal injection in the United States.
The TERT gene located on chromosome 5 at position p15.33 encodes the catalytic subunit of telomerase, which regulates telomere length.
Mutations in the TERT gene are associated with various conditions, including dyskeratosis congenita, idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis, breast cancer, cholangiocarcinoma, and melanoma.
In cancers, the mutations cause an increase in telomerase activity which contributes to tumorigenesis.
In central nervous system (CNS) tumors, including oligodendrogliomas, glioblastomas, haemangiopericytomas and medulloblastomas, the presence of somatic mutations in the TERT promoter region have primarily been identified.
Macrophages (Greek:big eaters, makros = large, phagein = eat) are cells that derive from blood monocytes.
Monocytes and macrophages are phagocytes, acting in both nonspecific defense (or innate immunity) as well as specific defense (or cell-mediated immunity).
Their role is to phagocytize (engulf and then digest) cellular debris and pathogens, and to stimulate lymphocytes and other immune cells to respond to a foreign antigen.
Compounds capable of relieving pain without the loss of CONSCIOUSNESS or without producing ANESTHESIA.
Nortramadol (desmethyltramadol) is a metabolite of opioid analgesic tramadol.
O-nortramadol (O-desmethyltramadol) is the predominant and active metabolite of tramadol, while the N- form is inactive.
An essential amino acid that is required for the synthesis of histamine.
Cocaine is an alkaloid of Erythroxylon coca that is grown in the northern South American Andes, India, Africa and Java.
It is used medicinally as a local anesthetic and vasoconstrictor in nasal surgery and to dilate pupils.
Because cocaine is a powerful central nervous system stimulant it is among the most abused drugs.
Cocaine abuse can lead to sudden death due to cardiotoxicity or the sequential development of hyperthermia, agitated delirium and respiratory arrest.
Cocaine is metabolized in the liver to inactive benzoylecgonine (BZE).
BZE is pharmacologically inactive and has a longer half-life than its parent drug cocaine.
It is the substance most tested for when investigating suspected cocaine abuse.
Cocaethylene (CE) is produced in the liver in the presence of ethanol and has been shown to have similar stimulatory effects as cocaine in animal studies.(Tietz
Fundamentals of Clinical Chemistry and Molecular Diagnostics, Seventh Edition) Cocaethylene is toxic to the myocardium.
Perfluorooctanoic acid (PFOA), also known as C8 and perfluorooctanoate, is a synthetic, stable perfluorinated carboxylic acid and fluorosurfactant.
One industrial application is as surfactant in the emulsion polymerization of fluoropolymers.
PFOA has been produced since the 1940s in industrial synthesis.
It is also formed by the degradation of precursors such as some fluorotelomers.
Chromosomal translocation t(14;18)(q32;q21)(IGH,MALT1) was first detected in mucosa-associated lymphoid tissue (MALT) lymphoma.
It is also found in other B-cell non-hodgkin lymphomas such as diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL).
This translocation is cytogenetically indistinguishable from t(14;18)(q32;q21.3)
FISH with probes specific to the targeted genes distinguishs between the two different rearrangements.
Coral fibers are elastic fibers covered by fatty acid salts ("soaps") that are formed in tuberculous cavities.
Lomefloxacin hydrochloride (Maxaquin®) is a quinolone antibiotic, used to treat bacterial infections including bronchitis and urinary tract infections.
It is also used to prevent urinary tract infections prior to surgery.
It is taken orally, usually daily for 10-14 days.
Nocardia is a genus of weakly-staining Gram-positive, catalase-positive, rod-shaped bacteria.
It forms partially acid-fast beaded branching filaments (acting as a fungi, but being truly bacteria).
It has total 85 species.
Some species are non pathogenic; some species are pathogenic (nocardiosis).
Nocardia are found worldwide in soil that is rich with organic matter.
Most Nocardia infections are acquired by inhalation of the bacteria or through traumatic introduction.
Progesterone is bound mostly to Cortisol Binding Globulin and albumin, with a small percentage in the bioactive free form.
Serum free progesterone is determined using equilibrium dialysis.
Porcine epidemic diarrhea virus (PEDV) is an enveloped, positive-stranded RNA virus belonging to the Coronaviridae family of viruses.
It is an extremely contagious enteric pathogen of pigs and causes porcine epidemic diarrhea (PED).
Symptoms of PED include watery diarrhea in pigs that are a few weeks old, dehydration, vomiting, and anorexia.
PED has a high morbidity and mortality rate in young piglets.
PEDV was first identified in Belgium in 1978, but has caused serious outbreaks since then in Asian pig farming countries including China.
Significant outbreaks of PEDV have also occurred in the United States, Canada, Taiwan and Europe.
The spike or S protein is one of seven proteins encoded by the 28 kB and resides on the outer surface of the virion.
There are two subunits of the S protein which are the N-terminal subunit S1 and the C-terminal subunit S2.
These two subunits must be cleaved in order for the virus to attach and enter the host cell.
The functional receptor for PEDV has been identified as porcine aminopeptidase N. There are no vaccines currently available on the market.
An anxiolytic agent and a serotonin receptor agonist belonging to the azaspirodecanedione class of compounds.
Its structure is unrelated to those of the benzodiazepines, but it has an efficacy comparable to DIAZEPAM.
An aldohexose that occurs naturally in the D-form in lactose, cerebrosides, gangliosides, and mucoproteins.
Deficiency of galactosyl-1-phosphate uridyltransferase (GALACTOSE-1-PHOSPHATE URIDYL-TRANSFERASE DEFICIENCY DISEASE) causes an error in galactose metabolism called GALACTOSEMIA, resulting in elevations of galactose in the blood.
Myelin is a modified plasma membrane that is wrapped in a spiral around the nerve axon creating a sheath.
The myelin sheath is comprised of abundant amounts of lipids and proteins and functions to insulate and protect the axon, and speed up nerve signal transmission.
Myelin covers the axons in both the central nervous system (CNS) and the peripheral nervous system (PNS).
The myelin in CNS is produced by the oligodendrocytes and the myelin in the PNS is produced by the Schwann cells.
In multiple sclerosis, a disease where myelin is lost or damaged, only the CNS myelin is affected.
The two types are myelin are chemically distinct but accomplish the same goal to promote efficient signal transmission and protect the axon.
In multiple sclerosis, the immune system attacks the myelin sheath in the CNS, damaging it and the oligodendrocytes that produce it.
The resulting lesions and scars are detectable on magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), causing nerve impulses to slow down or stop completely, and leading to the symptoms of MS.
CD25 (IL-2) and CD127 (IL-7) expression on CD4 T cells can subset CD4 cells into three specific populations: 1) IL-2 producing naive and central memory T cells (CD25(low/-)CD127+); 2) effector T cells (CD25-CD127-); and 3) regulatory T cells (CD127(low)CD25(high)).
With disease progression, patients with HIV may have specific changes in these CD4 subsets, including a relative increase in CD25-CD127- CD4 cells that is associated with declining CD4 count and immune activation.
Dicoumarol (International Nonproprietary Name) or dicumarol (United States Adopted Name) is an anticoagulant that functions as a Vitamin K antagonist (similar to warfarin, for which it was the inspiration).
It is also used in biochemical experiments as an inhibitor of reductases.
Dicoumarol is a natural chemical substance of combinded plant and fungal origin.
It is a derivative of coumarin, a substance made by plants that does not itself affect coagulation, but which is (classically) transformed in mouldy feeds by a number of species of fungi into active dicoumarol.
Dicoumarol does affect coagulation, and was discovered in mouldy wet sweet-clover hay, as the agent of a naturally occurring bleeding disease in cattle.
It is given only orally, and it acts within two days.
Mechanism of action : it is a competitive inhibitor of Vitamin K preventing the formation of prothrombin.
Administration of Vitamin K is the antidote for dicoumarol toxicity.
Follow-up is done by measuring the prothrombin time (PT).
Uses: Used along with heparin for the treatment of deep venous thrombosis
Oxcarbazepine is used as an adjunctive therapy for treatment of partial seizures in patients with epilepsy.
It works by lowering the level of abnormal electrical activity in the brain.
Oxcarbazepine is also used to treat bipolar disorders.
10-monohydroxy derivative (MHD) is the primary active metabolite of oxcarbazepine.
MHD is used to monitor oxcarbazepine therapy because it reaches peak plasma concentration in 4-6 hours and does not undergo significant metabolism, compared to oxcarbazepine, which has a half-life of 1-2 hours. .
Cells that line the inner and outer surfaces of the body by forming cellular layers (epithelium) or masses.
Epithelial cells lining the skin, the mouth, the nose, and the anal canal derive from the ectoderm; those lining the respiratory and the digestive systems derive from the endoderm.
The cardiovascular and lymphatic systems derive from the mesoderm.
Allocystathionine is a product of enzyme cystathionine synthetase which converts homocysteine to allocystathionine in the sulfur metabolism pathway.
It is also the substrate of enzyme cystathionine beta-lyase in the same pathway.
Indicator of Vitamin K deficiency.
Intended for use as an aid in the risk assessment of patients with chronic liver disease for the progression to hepatocellular carcinoma in conjunction with other laboratory findings, imaging studies and clinical assessment.
Sequence number to indicate the substance administration's order in a series.
Peak expiratory flow (PEF) is the maximal flow (or speed) achieved during the maximally forced expiration initiated at full expiration, measured in liters per minute.
Hev b 6 (hevein) is a major latex allergen.
The prototypical tricyclic antidepressant.
It has been used in major depression, dysthymia, bipolar depression, attention-deficit disorders, agoraphobia, and panic disorders.
It has less sedative effect than some other members of this therapeutic group.
Protamines are small, arginine-rich, nuclear proteins that replace histones late in the haploid phase of spermatogenesis and are believed essential for sperm head condensation and DNA stabilization.
It may allow for denser packaging of DNA in spermatozoon than histones, but it must be decompressed before the genetic data can be used for protein synthesis.
Genes that are essential for early embryonic development are still bound to ordinary histones, comprising about 4 percent of the DNA in spermatozoons.
Past hepatitis G infections can be detected by the persistance of E2 envelope antibodies
Lycopodium is a genus of clubmosses, also known as ground pines, in the family Lycopodiaceae
Filamentous fungi grow by repeated cell divisions within a chain of cells (intercalary growth).
The MRPS22 (mitochondrial ribosomal protein S22) is located on chromosome 3 at position q23.
Mutations in MRPS22 are known to cause combined oxidative phosphorylation deficiency 5 (COXPD5), a mitochondrial disease resulting in severe metabolic acidosis, edema, hypertrophic cardiomyopathy, tubulopathy, and hypotonia.
A phylum of fungi comprising minute intracellular PARASITES with FUNGAL SPORES of unicellular origin.
It has two classes: Rudimicrosporea and MICROSPOREA.
The white of an egg, especially a chicken's egg, that contains albumin.
(Random House Unabridged Dictionary, 2d ed)
Influenza virus A RNA tissue culture infective dose 50 (TCID50) is an estimate of the infectious virus titer.
Host cells are incubated with serial dilutions of a virus-containing specimen, and the percentage of cell death is recorded for each dilution.
The TCID50 result is calculated from the results of the serial dilution procedure by methods such as that published by Reed and Muench.
The anterior angle between the base of the nose, Subnasale and Labrale superius line
The PWS gene (Prader-Willi syndrome chromosome region) gene is located on chromosome 15q11-q12.
A number sign (#) is used with this entry because of evidence that Prader-Willi syndrome (PWS) is in effect a contiguous gene syndrome resulting from deletion of the paternal copies of the imprinted SNRPN gene (MIM 182279), the necdin gene (MIM 602117), and possibly other genes within the chromosome region 15q11-q13.
Prader-Willi syndrome is characterized by diminished fetal activity, obesity, muscular hypotonia, mental retardation, short stature, hypogonadotropic hypogonadism, and small hands and feet.
It can be considered to be an autosomal dominant disorder and is caused by deletion or disruption of a gene or several genes on the proximal long arm of the paternal chromosome 15 or maternal uniparental disomy 15, because the gene(s) on the maternal chromosome(s) 15 are virtually inactive through imprinting.
Horsthemke and Wagstaff (2008) provided a detailed review of the mechanisms of imprinting of the Prader-Willi/Angelman syndrome (MIM 105830) region.
See also the chromosome 15q11-q13 duplication syndrome (MIM 608636), which shows overlapping clinical features.
Found on all activated leukocytes Associated with Acute leukemias, Intermediate and high grade lymphomas and Reed-Sternberg cells
The retinoic acid induced 1 (RAI1) gene, located in the 17p11.2 region, is the causative gene for Smith-Magenis syndrome (SMS) and Potocki-Lupski syndrome (PTLS).
SMS and PTLS are characterized by multiple congenital anomalies and mental retardation resulting from either a deletion (SMS) or duplication (PTLS) of the 17p11.2 chromosome region.
The disorders are diagnosed using a combination of clinically recognized phenotypes and molecular cytogenetic analyses, including fluorescent in situ hybridization (FISH).
Clinically, PTLS presents as a milder syndrome than SMS.
The amount of food oil foods consumed, where a serving is the amount of that food customarily considered a serving.
The number of infant formula feedings.
The SLC12A6 gene (solute carrier family 12 member 6) is located on chromosome 15q13.
This gene is a member of the K-Cl cotransporter (KCC) family.
K-Cl cotransporters are integral membrane proteins that lower intracellular chloride concentrations below the electrochemical equilibrium potential.
The proteins encoded by this gene are activated by cell swelling induced by hypotonic conditions.
Alternate splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms.
Mutations in this gene are associated with agenesis of the corpus callosum with peripheral neuropathy.
A racemic mixture with a 1:1 ratio of the r-isomer, levalbuterol, and s-albuterol.
It is a short-acting beta2-adrenergic agonist with its main clinical use in ASTHMA.
Testing for beta-2 glycoprotein 1 antibodies (IgG, IgM, and/or IgA) is performed to determine a person's risk of developing inappropriate blood clots (thrombi) in both arteries and veins.
Beta-2 glycoprotein 1 antibody is one of three primary antiphospholipid antibodies that target the body's own lipid-proteins (phospholipids) found in the outermost layer of cells (cell membranes) and platelets.
They interfere with the body's blood clotting process in arteries and veins.
Antiphospholipid antibodies are most frequently seen in those with antiphospholipid syndrome (APS), an autoimmune disorder associated with blood clots (thrombotic episodes), a low platelet count (thrombocytopenia), or with pregnancy complications such as pre-eclampsia and recurrent miscarriages, especially in the 2nd and 3rd trimesters.
One or more antiphospholipid antibodies may also be seen with other autoimmune disorders, such as systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE).
Hereditary Hemochromatosis (HH) causes excess iron absorption that leads to iron deposits in tissues and organs, eventually leading to organ dysfunction.
Two point mutations in the HLA locus of chromosome 6 are responsible for the majority of HH cases-C282Y and H63D mutations.
The C282Y mutation prevents the interaction of the HFE protein with Beta-2 microglobulin and leads to an inability to bind the transferrin receptor.
Homozygous C282Y mutation accounts for up to 90% of hemochromatosis patients.
C282Y and H63D or S65C heterozygotes are associated with milder forms of HH.
Heterozygotes for any of these single mutations are not significantly associated with HH.
The Coconut is native to tropical eastern regions, but today it is also grown in the tropical parts of the United States, in Central and South America, and in Africa.
Coconut may uncommonly induce symptoms of food allergy in sensitised individuals.
Kynurenine is a metabolite of the amino acid L-tryptophan used in the production of niacin.
Kynurenine and its further breakdown products, including 3-hydroxykynurenine and anthranilic acid, carry out diverse biological functions, such as dilating blood vessels during inflammation and regulating the immune response.
Some cancers increase kynurenine production, which increases tumor growth.
Evidence suggests that increased kynurenine production may precipitate depressive symptoms associated with interferon treatment for hepatitis C. Cognitive deficits in schizophrenia are associated with imbalances in the enzymes that break down kynurenine.
Kynurenine production is increased in Alzheimer's disease and cardiovascular disease where its metabolites are associated with cognitive deficits and depressive symptoms.
Kynurenine is also associated with tics.
Coxsackievirus A7 (CVA7) is a rarely detected and poorly characterized virus that belongs to the Enterovirus A species and has three strains: Parker, USSR, and 275/58.
Despite a difference in pathogenicity among the three strains, they can all be typed by CVA7-specific neutralizing antibodies.
CVA7 is most closely related to CVA14, CVA16, and Enterovirus 71 (EV71), and is associated with hand, foot and mouth disease (HFMD).
CVA7 is neurotropic and can cause paralytic poliomyelitis.
CVA7 was widely detected in the 1950s and 1960s during paralytic epidemics.
Two forms of placental alkaline phopsphatases (P-ALP) exist: P1 (the major form) and P2 (the minor form P2), representing about 90% and 10%, respectively.
In pregnancy, P-ALP is first detected between the sixteenth and twentieth week of gestation.
It increases gradually until delivery and usually disappears within four to seven days post-partum.
P-ALP is also found in some malignant diseases, including ovarian cancers, sarcomas, pancreatic and stomach cancers.
Marker of oxidative modification of proteins
A desmosomal cadherin that is an autoantigen in the acquired skin disorder PEMPHIGUS VULGARIS.
Deoxyadenosine is a derivative of nucleoside adenosine.
It is comprised of adenine attached to a deoxyribose moiety via a N9-glycosidic bond.
Deoxyribose differs from ribose by the absence of oxygen in the 3' position of its ribose ring.
Deoxyadenosine is a critical component of DNA.
Doxepin is a tricyclic antidepressant, known under many brand-names such as Aponal ®, the original preparation by Boehringer-Ingelheim, now part of the Roche group; Adapine ®, Sinquan ® and Sinequan ® (Pfizer Inc.).
As doxepin hydrochloride it is the active ingredient in cream based preparations (Zonalon ® and Xepin ®) for the treatment of dermatological itch.
Kininogens are proteins that are defined by their role as precursors for kinin, but that also can have additional roles.
Low-molecular-weight kininogen, which is produced locally by numerous tissues, and secreted together with tissue kallikrein.
Food allergen mix 30A (fx30) contains kiwi, papaya, mango, banana and avacodo IgE antibodies.
Testing for IgE antibodies may be used to help diagnose an allergic disease or the cause of an anaphylactic episode in a patient.
3-Hydroxybenzoylecgonine is a minor metabolite of cocaine
Contains several allergens such as albumin, other serum proteins and the acidic glycoprotein fraction that has been shown to be the major dog allergen.
A serum protein which is important in the ALTERNATIVE COMPLEMENT ACTIVATION PATHWAY.
This enzyme cleaves the COMPLEMENT C3B-bound COMPLEMENT FACTOR B to form C3bBb which is ALTERNATIVE PATHWAY C3 CONVERTASE.
Clomethiazole is a drug with sedative, hypnotic, and anticonvulsant properties.
It is used for treating restlessness, agitation, and insomnia in the elderly, as well as acute alcohol withdrawal.
It may also have a neuroprotective effect in patients with ischemic stroke.
A species of hydatid tapeworm (class CESTODA) in the family Taeniidae, whose adult form infects the DIGESTIVE TRACT of DOGS, other canines, and CATS.
The larval form infects SHEEP; PIGS; HORSES; and may infect humans, where it migrates to various organs and forms permanent HYDATID CYSTS.
Cefminox (INN) is a second-generation cephalosporin antibiotic.
Beta VLDL contains significantl more cholesterol than normal VLDL.
It is found in patients with type III Hyperlipoproteinemia and is due to high chylomicrons and IDL (intermediate density lipoprotein).
Also known as broad beta disease or dysbetalipoproteinemia, the most common cause for this form is the presence of ApoE E2/E2 genotype.
Prevalence is 0.02% of the population.
A spice mixture, which may result in allergy symptoms in sensitised individuals.
The term "Curry" can be very confusing, as its meanings range from the name of several plants to the generic name of a considerable variety of spice mixtures and whole dishes.
Spices may uncommonly induce symptoms of food allergy in sensitised individuals.
Symptoms are usually mild but vary from itching and smarting of the lips and mouth to anaphylaxis.
Most allergic reactions produced by spices are the result of ingestion, and spices usually act as "hidden" allergens.
Spices as hidden allergens are potentially very dangerous because minute amounts can cause systemic reactions and even anaphylactic shock.
SOX10 is a member of the SOX (SRY-related HMG-box) family of transcription factors involved in the regulation of embryonic development and in the determination of the cell fate.
SOX10 may act as a transcriptional activator after forming a protein complex with other proteins.
It also acts as a nucleocytoplasmic shuttle protein and is important for neural crest and peripheral nervous system development.
Mutations in SOX10 are the cause of peripheral demyelinating neuropathy, central dysmyelinating leukodystrophy, Waardenburg syndrome, Waardenburg-Shah syndrome and Hirschsprung disease, also called neurologic variant of Waardenburg-Shah syndrome.
Banana is the common name used for herbaceous plants in the genus Musa, which because of their size and structure, are often mistaken for trees.
Bananas are cultivated for their fruit which bear the same name, and to a lesser extent for the production of fibre and as ornamental plants.
Bananas belong to the family Musaceae and globally are ranked fourth after rice, wheat and maize in human consumption; they are grown in 130 countries, more than any other fruit crop.
Bananas are native to tropical southeastern Asia but are widely cultivated in tropical regions.
In popular culture and commerce, banana usually refers to the soft, sweet dessert bananas that are usually eaten raw.
The bananas from a group of cultivars with firmer, starchier fruit, generally used in cooking rather than eaten raw, are typically known as plantains.
Bananas may also be dried and ground into banana flour.
Dehydroascorbic acid is the oxidized form of vitamin C. Reduced Vitamin C concentrations in the brain exceed those in blood by 10 fold.
Dehydroascorbic acid readily enters the brain and is retained in the brain tissue in the form of ascorbic acid (ascorbic acid is not able to cross the blood-brain barrier).
Therefore, transport of dehydroascorbic acid by the Glucose Transporter 1 (GLUT1, Glucose transporters are integral membrane glycoproteins involved in transporting glucose into most cells.
GLUT1 is a major glucose transporter in the mammalian blood-brain barrier.
It is present at high levels in primate erythrocytes and brain endothelial cells.) is a mechanism by which the brain acquires vitamin C. .
An alpha-globulin of which a fragment of 14 amino acids is converted by renin to angiotensin I, the inactive precursor of angiotensin II.
It is a member of the serpin superfamily.
Interferon gamma is a cytokine produced by T helper cells as part of the immune response to various stimuli.
The level of gamma interferon produced provides a measure of sensitization of the cell mediated immune system to the specific stimulus.
This negative (nil) control includes the carrier diluent used in the other stimulants with no specific antigen, so the expected result is minimal production of gamma interferon.
The MPI gene (secretory leukocyte peptidase inhibitor) is located on chromosome 20q12.
This gene encodes a secreted inhibitor which protects epithelial tissues from serine proteases.
It is found in various secretions including seminal plasma, cervical mucus, and bronchial secretions, and has affinity for trypsin, leukocyte elastase, and cathepsin G.
Its inhibitory effect contributes to the immune response by protecting epithelial surfaces from attack by endogenous proteolytic enzymes.
This antimicrobial protein has antibacterial, antifungal and antiviral activity.
The PTPN22 (protein tyrosine phosphatase N22) gene encodes the protein tyrosine phosphatase Lyp.
A single nucleotide polymorphism in the PTPN22 gene, c.1858>T, encodes products with different Csk binding affinities.
The PTPN22 c.1858C>T variant has been associated with three different autoimmune disorders: type 1 diabetes, rheumatoid arthritis, and systemic lupus erythematosus.
There are two different types of fiber, soluble and insoluble.
Both are important for health, digestion, and preventing diseases.
Insoluble fiber is found in foods such as wheat bran, vegetables, and whole grains.
It adds bulk to the stool and appears to help food pass more quickly through the stomach and intestines.
CA 125 is an antigenic determinant associated with a mucin-like glycoprotein, molecular weight exceeding 500,000 Daltons.
This determinant is recognized by the murine monoclonal antibody OC 125, which reacts with over 80% of epithelial ovarian cancers.
Elevated CA 125 levels have been reported in subjects with serous, endometrioid, clear cell, and undifferentiated ovarian carcinoma adenocarcinoma of the endometrium or fallopian tube, as well as some nongynocologic malignancies and certain nonmalignant conditions.
Elevated levels also have been observed in pregnant women, most often during the first trimester.
CA 125 levels may have significant value in monitoring ovarian carcinoma patients.
A persistently rising CA 125 value may be associated with progressive malignant disease and poor therapeutic response.
A declining CA 125 value is indicative of favorable prognosis and good response to treatment.
CA 125 levels may help predict whether an invasive second-look procedure such as laparoscopy or laparotomy is required after treatment for epithelial ovarian cancer.
Mycobacterium avium is a common environmental organism that causes significant cross reaction with Mycobacterium bovis and must, therefore, must have a control.
A blood sample is stimulated with the specific antigen (Mycobacterium avium) and then the level of gamma interferon measured.
Gamma interferon is a cytokine produced by T helper cells as part of the immune response to various stimuli.
The level of gamma interferon produced provides a measure of sensitization of the cell mediated immune system to the specific stimulus.
Streptococcus is a genus of spherical Gram-positive bacteria belonging to the lactic acid bacteria group.
Most streptococci are oxidase- and catalase-negative, and many are facultative anaerobes.
In the medical setting, the most important groups are the alpha-hemolytic streptococci S. pneumoniae and Streptococcus Viridans-group, and the beta-hemolytic streptococci of Lancefield groups A and B (also known as "Group A strep" and "Group B strep").
Other beta-hemolytic groups include C, D (enterococci), F, G, and H.
Ferritin is the major iron storage protein in mammals, and is located primarily in the liver, spleen and bone marrow.
Serum ferritin concentrations correlate well with total body iron stores in normal subjects and in patients with iron deficiency or transfusional iron overloads.
The measurement of serum ferritin is now considered to be an accurate, quantitative, and convenient method of assessing total body iron stores.
Low serum ferritin is diagnostic for iron deficiency anemia, and elevated serum ferritin occurs in the thalassemia but can also occur in other acute and chronic conditions such as hepatic disease, respiratory infections and certain types of malignancy.
An esterified form of TRIAMCINOLONE.
It is an anti-inflammatory glucocorticoid used topically in the treatment of various skin disorders.
Intralesional, intramuscular, and intra-articular injections are also administered under certain conditions.
A protozoan parasite that is the etiologic agent of East Coast fever (THEILERIASIS).
Transmission is by ticks of the Physicephalus and Hyalomma genera.
There are six major hepatitis C virus genotypes (1-6), each of which can be further subdivided into subtypes (for example, 1a, 1b, 2a).
Genotypes 1, 2 and 3 are widely distributed in developed countries while other genotypes appear to be more geographically localized Genotype 1 (including subtypes 1a and 1b) is the most prevalent by far in the United States.
Genotype 3, constitutes 10% of HCV infections in the United States and Canada.
Patients with this HCV genotype have a higher incidence of hepatocellular carcinoma, higher prevalence of steatosis and insulin resistance, and faster rates of fibrosis progression compared to patients with other HCV genotypes.
The sphere is the additional focusing power (as a positive or negative number) needed to focus the visual image on the retina.
Negative diopters are required to correct near-sightedness, and positive to correct far-sightedness.
The term is named "sphere" to indicate that the correction is applied in all meridians of the eye.
Monocyte distribution width (MDW) is the measure of a change in the size distribution of circulating monocytes.
An increase in the MDW may be an early indicator of sepsis.
An early diagnosis of sepsis in patients has been a challenge, with the time to diagnosis often being more than 8 hours after the patient arrives in the ED.
An elevated white blood cell (WBC) count is not a specific marker for sepsis, and a better measure may be the WBC in conjunction with the MDW, because monocytes are early responders to pathogenic organisms and their immune response causes them to increase in size.
Some indications reduce the efficacy of the MDW in helping to diagnose sepsis and include vitamin deficiencies, primary bone marrow disorders, some drugs that lead to macrocytosis, and immune suppressed individuals and more.
Dirithromycin is a macrolide glycopeptide antibiotic.
Dirithromycin (Dynabac) is a more lipid-soluble prodrug derivative of 9S-erythromycyclamine prepared by condensation of the latter with 2-(2-methoxyethoxy)acetaldehyde.
The 9N, 11O-oxazine ring thus formed is a hemi-aminal that is unstable under both acidic and alkaline aqueous conditions and undergoes spontaneous hydrolysis to form erythromycyclamine.
Erythromycyclamine is a semisynthetic derivative of erythromycin in which the 9-ketogroup of the erythronolide ring has been converted to an amino group.
Erythromycyclamine retains the antibacterial properties of erythromycin oral administration.
The prodrug, dirithromycin, is provided as enteric coated tablets to protect it from acid catalyzed hydrolysis in the stomach.
Orally administered dirithromycin is absorbed rapidly into the plasma, largely from the small intestine.
Spontaneous hydrolysis to erythromycyclamine occurs in the plasma.
Oral bioavailability is estimated to be about 10%, but food does not affect absorption of the prodrug.
A plant species of the family Poaceae that is cultivated world-wide for its edible seeds.
Atazanavir is an antiretroviral drug used in the treatment of HIV.
Drug resistance reports assist with treatment decisions.
The chlorate anion has the formula ClO3−. In this case, the chlorine atom is in the +5 oxidation state.
"Chlorate" can also refer to chemical compounds containing this anion; chlorates are the salts of chloric acid.
"Chlorate", when followed by a roman numeral in parenthesis, e.g. chlorate(VII), refers to a particular oxyanion of chlorine.
Furazabol (Miotolan) is a derivative of the anabolic steroid stanozolol.
It differs from stanozolol by having a furazan ring system in place of the pyrazole.
It has a c-17alpha methyl group, which allows it to be taken orally and causes hepatotoxicity in some individuals
Xanthochromia refers to the yellowish appearance of cerebrospinal fluid in certain medical conditions, especially subarachnoid hemorrhage, when red blood cells (RBC) enter the CSF during bleeding.
RBCs are eventually destroyed, releasing the oxygen-carrying molecule heme, which in turn is degraded to yield bilirubin, a yellow-green pigment.
Heme that enters the CSF for different reasons (for example when a small blood vessel is damaged during a lumbar puncture), has no time to be digested and bilirubin is not generated.
Many laboratories rely on the color of the fluid alone when testing for xanthochromia.
Recent guidelines, however, suggest that spectrophotometry should be performed since bilirubin absorbs light of wavelengths between 450-460 nm.
Two related substances, oxyhemoglobin and methemoglobin (410-418 nm and 403-410 nm absorption ranges, respectively) that are also released when heme is metabolized may be detected during this process.
There are other causes for xanthochromia.
Nornicotine is a primary metabolite of nicotine.
Nuclear pore glycoprotein-210 (gp210) is an essential trafficking regulator in the eukaryotic nuclear pore complex.
Gp-210 anchors the pore complex to the nuclear membrane and protein tagging reveals its primarily located on the luminal side of double layer membrane at the pore.
A single polypeptide motif of gp210 is responsible for sorting to nuclear membrane,and indicate the carboxyl tail of the protein is oriented toward the cytoplasmic side of the membrane.
Telbivudine is an antiviral drug used in the treatment of hepatitis B infection.
It is marketed by Swiss pharmaceutical company Novartis under the trade names Sebivo (Europe) and Tyzeka (United States).
Clinical trials have shown it to be significantly more effective than lamivudine or adefovir, and less likely to cause resistance.
Normetanephrine is an extra-neuronal catechol-0-methyl transferase (COMT) metabolite of the catecholamine norepinephrine.
Measurement of plasma metanephrines is more sensitive (but may be less specific) than measurement of catecholamines for the detection of pheochromocytoma.
Amikacin works by binding to the bacterial 30S ribosomal subunit, causing misreading of mRNA and leaving the bacterium unable to synthesize proteins vital to its growth.
Amikacin may be administered once or twice a day but must be given by the intravenous or intramuscular route.
There is no oral form available.
Dosage must be adjusted in people with kidney failure.
Amikacin is most often used for treating severe, hospital-acquired infections with multidrug resistant Gram negative bacteria such as Pseudomonas aeruginosa, Acinetobacter, and Enterobacter.
Amikacin may be combined with a beta-lactam antibiotic for empiric therapy for people with neutropenia and fever.
Side effects of amikacin are similar to other aminoglycosides.
Kidney damage and hearing loss are the most important effects.
Succinate semialdehyde dehydrogenase (SSADH) is a mitochondrial protein involved in the degradation of gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA), an inhibitory neurotransmitter.
Decreased levels of SSADH causes succinate semialdehyde dehydrogenase deficiency (SSADHD), a condition characterized by developmental delay, hypotonia, mental retardation, ataxia, seizures, hyperkinetic behavior, aggression, and sleep disturbances.
Prenatal diagnosis of SSADH deficiency may be performed by enzyme analysis in amniotic fluid and cells.
Everolimus is a kinase inhibitor that is used to treat a number of cancers and to prevent rejection of organ transplants.
It is an mTOR inhibitor, and has been effective against renal cell carcinoma, pancreatic neuroendocrine tumors, and advanced kidney tumors, all of which have been unsuccessfully treated with other medications.
Abalone are small to very large-sized edible sea snails, marine gastropod mollusks in the family Haliotidae and the genus Haliotis.
The family Haliotidae has no subfamilies.
Common names for abalones also include ear-shells, sea ears, as well as muttonfish or muttonshells in Australia, ormer in Great Britain, perlemoen and venus's-ears in South Africa and pāua in New Zealand
A beta-adrenergic antagonist used in the treatment of hypertension, angina pectoris, arrhythmias, and anxiety.
Elvitegravir is an integrase strand transfer innhibitor (INSTI) active against the human immunodeficiency virus (HIV).
Therapy with elvitegravir may be used in combination with cobicistat (a CYP3A4 inhibitor), emtricitabine and tenofovir (both nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors).
The treatment is often associated with increased alanine aminotransferase (ALT) levels in serum with no reports of clinically apparent liver injury.
Tetradecadienoylcarnitine is a primary marker for Glutaric acidemia type I. Secondary marker for Maternal glutaric acidemia type I.
The inv(16)(p13.1;q22.1) CBFB-MYH11 fusion transcript is a chromosomal abnormality associated with acute myelomonocytic leukemia (AML).
This results in the formation of a chimeric protein between core binding factor beta and smooth muscle myosin heavy chain 11.
Positive results are indicative of AML subtype M4E0.
HPV type 58 has been associated with low grade cervical abnormalities, cancer precursors, and anogenital cancers.
Bendiocarb is an acutely toxic carbamate insecticide used in public health and agriculture and is effective against a wide range of nuisance and disease vector insects.
Many bendiocarb products are or were sold under the tradenames "Ficam" and "Turcam.
Bendiocarb is not considered to be carcinogenic, but it is acutely toxic.
Like other carbamates, it reversibly inhibits acetylcholinesterase, an enzyme required for normal transmission of nerve impulses.
Bendiocarb binds to the active site of this enzyme leading to an accumulation of acetylcholine, which is required for the transmission of nerve impulses, at nerve muscle sites.
Bromoform (CHBr3) is a pale yellowish liquid with a sweet odor similar to chloroform, a halomethane or haloform.
Its refractive index is 1.595 (20 °C, D).
Bromoform is produced naturally by phytoplankton and seaweeds in the ocean and this is thought to be the predominant source to the environment.
However locally significant amounts of bromoform enter the environment formed as disinfection byproducts known as the trihalomethanes when chlorine is added to drinking water to kill bacteria.
It is somewhat soluble in water and readily evaporates into the air.
Bromoform is a confirmed animal carcinogen; (ACGIH 2004).
Carcinogen category: 3B; (DFG 2004).
Hake is one of the most frequently consumed fish in Spain, and is closely related to cod.
Species within groups of fish, like Gadiformes (examples: codfish and hake) and Scombroid fishes (examples: mackerel and tuna) seem to share allergenic components.
The overlap of allergen specificity between the groups seems to be moderate or even small.
Ureaplasma, along with Mycoplasma hominis, is known as one of the genital mycoplasma organisms.
It is thought of as an opportunistic pathogen, and there is possible implication in neonatal BPD (bronchopulmonary dysplasia).
Methoxychlor is an organochlorine pesticide that has a comparatively low toxicity and transitory persistence in biological systems.
Since the ban on Dichlorodiphenyltrichloroethane (DDT) in 1972, the use of methoxychlor has gone up.
Methoxychlor is used as a general purpose pesticide in agriculture, households, on ornamental plants, and to kill parasites on dairy and beef cattle.
There is no evidence that methoxychlor damages genetic material or is an animal carcinogen.
While methoxychlor does not bioaccumulate in the tissue of mammals, it is very persistent in soil and has a half-live of more than six months.
The ACTH stimulation test (also called the cosyntropin test, tetracosactide test or Synacthen test) is a medical test usually ordered and interpreted by endocrinologists to assess the functioning of the adrenal glands stress response by measuring the adrenal response to adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH).
ACTH is a hormone produced in the pituitary gland that stimulates the adrenal glands to release cortisol.
During the test, a small amount of synthetic ACTH is injected, and the amount of cortisol, and sometimes aldosterone, the adrenals produce in response is measured.
This test may cause mild to moderate side effects in some individuals.
This test is used to diagnose or exclude primary and secondary adrenal insufficiency, Addison's disease and related conditions.
In addition to quantifying adrenal insufficiency, the test can distinguish whether the cause is adrenal (low cortisol and aldosterone production) or pituitary (low ACTH production).
The ACTH stimulation test is recognized as the gold standard assay of adrenal insufficiency, although this test is primarily used to determine the presence of Addison's disease and pituitary impairment.
If the test does not show Addison's, the test interpreter may see it as showing the adrenal glands are working, not recognizing any degree of adrenal insufficiency between Addison's (the worst degree of adrenal insufficiency) and healthy adrenal function.
The test is extremely sensitive (97% at 95% specificity) to primary adrenal insufficiency, but less so to secondary adrenal insufficiency (57-61% at 95% specificity); while secondary adrenal insufficiency may thus be dismissed by some interpreters on the basis of the test, additional testing may be called for if probability of secondary adrenal insufficiency is particularly high.
Adrenal insufficiency is a potentially life-threatening condition.
Treatment should be initiated as soon as the diagnosis is confirmed, or sooner if the patient presents in apparent adrenal crisis
The insulin-like growth factors (IGFs) are polypeptides with high sequence similarity to insulin.
IGFs are part of a complex system that cells use to communicate with their physiologic environment.
This complex system (often referred to as the IGF axis) consists of two cell-surface receptors (IGF1R and IGF2R), two ligands (IGF-I and IGF-II), a family of six high-affinity IGF binding proteins (IGFBP 1-6), as well as associated IGFBP degrading enzymes, referred to collectivly as proteases.
Indicates whether the patient was seen in this emergency department within the 72 hours prior to the current visit and then was discharged from the emergency department.
Heptacarboxylporphyrin III is a bile product that arises from the conversion of Heptacarboxylporphyrinogen III to Heptacarboxylporphyrin III by porphyrinogen carboxy-lyase .
Neospora caninum is a coccidian parasite that was identified as a species in 1988.
Prior to this, it was misclassified as Toxoplasma gondii due to structural similarities.
Neospora caninum is an important cause of spontaneous abortion in infected livestock.
Neospora caninum has a heteroxenous life cycle, with the reproductive stage occurring in the intestine of the definitive host, which is the dog.
Other carnivores, for example, the fox], may also be definitive hosts.
Oocysts passed in the feces of the definitive host are ingested by an intermediate host, for example, cattle, and form tissue cysts.
Transplacental transmission, that is passage from mother to offspring during pregnancy, has been shown to occur in dogs, cats, sheep and cattle.
Neospora caninum does not appear to be infectious to humans.
In dogs, Neospora caninum can cause neurological signs, especially in congenitally infected puppies, where it can form cysts in the central nervous system.
A competitive histamine H2-receptor antagonist.
Its main pharmacodynamic effect is the inhibition of gastric secretion.
Butane is a hydrocarbon with the formula C4H10, that is, an alkane with four carbon atoms.
The term may refer to any of two structural isomers, or to a mixture of them: in the IUPAC nomenclature, however, butane refers only to the unbranched n-butane isomer; the other one being called "methylpropane".
Pefloxacin is a synthetic chemotherapeutic agent used to treat severe and life threatening bacterial infections.
Pefloxacin is commonly referred to as a fluoroquinolone (or quinolone) drug and is a member of the fluoroquinolone class of antibacterials.
It is an analog of norfloxacin.
It is a synthetic fluoroquinolone, belonging to the 3rd generation of quinolones.
Pefloxacin is extensively prescribed in France, but has not been approved for use in the United States.
Fungal antibody panels evaluate the presence of antibodies to various fungal pathogens.
Antibody testing may detect infections not found through a culture.
Mycogone perniciosa causes wet bubble disease in cultivated mushrooms.
The name crayfish or crawfish is mainly used for freshwater crustaceans similar in appearance to clawed lobsters but in most cases much smaller.
There are many species all around the world and many are farmed in large scale and supplied frozen, fresh or cooked, whole or peeled.
Although the name crayfish should be reserved for members of the genera Cambarus (North America, eastern part) and Astacus (Europe and North America, western part), it is frequently used for other crustaceans and may also refer to spiny lobster (langust, Rf304).
Several studies indicate cross-reactivity between crayfish and other crustaceans.
True shrimp are small, swimming, decapod crustaceans classified in the infraorder Caridea, found widely around the world in both fresh and salt water.
Shrimp is a highly allergenic food that can cause severe anaphylactic reactions.
Red maple(Acer rubrum), also known as Swamp or Soft Maple, is one of the most common and widespread deciduous tress of eastern North America.
The leaves of the red maple are highly toxic to horses, especially when dead or wilted.
The mesothelium is a membrane that forms the lining of several body cavities: the pleura (thoracal cavity), peritoneum (abdominal cavity including the mesentery) and pericardium (heart sac).
Mesothelial tissue also surrounds the male internal reproductive organs (the tunica vaginalis testis) and covers the internal reproductive organs of women (the tunica serosa uteri).
Mesothelium that covers the internal organs is called visceral mesothelium, while the layer that covers the body walls is called the parietal mesothelium.
The kiwifruit is the edible fruit of a cultivar group of the woody vine Actinidia deliciosa and hybrids between this and other species in the genus Actinidia.
The most common cultivars of kiwifruit are oval, and about the size of a large hen's egg (5-8cm long and 4.5-5.5cm diameter).
It has a hairy, dull green-brown skin that most people peel off before consumption.
The flesh is bright green or golden with rows of small, black, edible seeds.
The texture of the fruit is soft and the flavour is sometimes described as a mix of strawberry, banana, and pineapple.
The fruit gets its name from a marketing strategy, naming it after the kiwi, the national bird of New Zealand, where the fruit was first commercially popularised in 1959 by the New Zealand fruit-and-vegetable export company Turners and Growers ; previously it was known as the Chinese gooseberry, but due to the Cold War, the Chinese label seemed unfit for popularization of the fruit in Western countries.
Exfoliative (EF) toxins are implicated in the disease staphylococcal scalded-skin syndrome (SSSS), which occurs most commonly in infants and young children.
It also may occur as epidemics in hospital nurseries.
The protease activity of the exfoliative toxins causes peeling of the skin observed with SSSS.
Two biologically and serologically distinct Staphylococcus aureus exotoxins are responsible for SSSS in humans - exfoliative toxin A (eta) and exfoliative toxin B (etb).
An acetic acid ester of CARNITINE that facilitates movement of ACETYL COA into the matrices of mammalian MITOCHONDRIA during the oxidation of FATTY ACIDS.
The type species of the Flavivirus genus.
Principal vector transmission to humans is by Aedes spp.
Anisochromasia or anisiochromia is the non-uniform color of erythrocytes caused by a non-uniform distribution of hemoglobin in them.
Slight anisochromasia is normal due to the biconcave shape of erythrocytes; if excessive, it can point to forms of anemia that are caused by a deficiency of iron.
Furfenorex (Frugalan), also known as furfurylmethylamphetamine, is a stimulant drug which was developed in the 1960s and used as an appetite suppressant.
It produces methamphetamine as a metabolite, and is no longer marketed, due to possible problems with abuse.
The LAMC2 gene (laminin subunit gamma 2) is located on chromosome 1q25-q31.
Laminins, a family of extracellular matrix glycoproteins, are the major noncollagenous constituent of basement membranes.
They have been implicated in a wide variety of biological processes including cell adhesion, differentiation, migration, signaling, neurite outgrowth and metastasis.
Laminins, composed of 3 non identical chains: laminin alpha, beta and gamma (formerly A, B1, and B2, respectively), have a cruciform structure consisting of 3 short arms, each formed by a different chain, and a long arm composed of all 3 chains.
Each laminin chain is a multidomain protein encoded by a distinct gene.
Several isoforms of each chain have been described.
Different alpha, beta and gamma chain isomers combine to give rise to different heterotrimeric laminin isoforms which are designated by Arabic numerals in the order of their discovery, i.e. alpha1beta1gamma1 heterotrimer is laminin 1.
The biological functions of the different chains and trimer molecules are largely unknown, but some of the chains have been shown to differ with respect to their tissue distribution, presumably reflecting diverse functions in vivo.
This gene encodes the gamma chain isoform laminin, gamma 2.
The gamma 2 chain, formerly thought to be a truncated version of beta chain (B2t), is highly homologous to the gamma 1 chain; however, it lacks domain VI, and domains V, IV and III are shorter.
It is expressed in several fetal tissues but differently from gamma 1, and is specifically localized to epithelial cells in skin, lung and kidney.
The gamma 2 chain together with alpha 3 and beta 3 chains constitute laminin 5 (earlier known as kalinin), which is an integral part of the anchoring filaments that connect epithelial cells to the underlying basement membrane.
The epithelium-specific expression of the gamma 2 chain implied its role as an epithelium attachment molecule, and mutations in this gene have been associated with junctional epidermolysis bullosa, a skin disease characterized by blisters due to disruption of the epidermal-dermal junction.
Two transcript variants resulting from alternative splicing of the 3' terminal exon, and encoding different isoforms of gamma 2 chain, have been described.
The two variants are differentially expressed in embryonic tissues, however, the biological significance of the two forms is not known.
Transcript variants utilizing alternative polyA_signal have also been noted in literature.
Lactate dehydrogenase (LDH, or also called LD) is an oxidoreductase (LD: and is the most important clinically of several dehydrogenases occurring in human serum.
LDH catalyses the interconversion of pyruvate and lactate with concomitant interconversion of NADH and NAD.
When disease, injury, or toxic material damages tissues, cells release LDH into the bloodstream.
Since LDH is a fairly stable enzyme, it has been widely used to evaluate the presence of damage and toxicity of tissue and cells.
LDH is cytoplasmic in its cellular location and in any one tissue is composed of one or two of five possible isoenzymes.
While many of its clinical applications involve quantification of one or more specific serum isoenzymes, an estimate of total LDH is usually required.
Lactate dehydrogenase catalyzes the reversible reaction: L-lactate + NAD <--> pyruvate + NADH.
Testing methods either measure the increase in NADH produced in the lactate-to-pyruvate reaction or the decrease in NADH produced in the pyruvate-to-lactate reaction..
Reference ranges are highly method dependent.
The pyruvate-to-lactate reaction is preferred theoretically because the equilibrium constant is large and the rate for any amount of enzyme is 2-3 times faster, thus smaller sample and shorter observation periods are needed.
Disadvantages of the pyruvate-to-lactate reaction are loss of linearity as compared with the lactate-to-pyruvate reaction, and greater substrate inhibition of the enzyme.
C29-dicarboxylic acid is a bile acid intermediate that accumulates in plasma from patients with a peroxisome deficiency disorder (i.e., Zellweger syndrome, neonatal adrenoleukodystrophy, and infantile Refsum disease).
The amount of plasma C29-dicarboxylic acid and other bile acid intermediates correlates with the extent of peroxisomal deficiency.
Chlorpromazine was the first antipsychotic drug, used during the 1950s and 1960s.
Used as chlorpromazine hydrochloride and sold under the tradenames Largactil® and Thorazine®, it has sedative, hypotensive and antiemetic properties as well as anticholinergic and antidopaminergic effects.
It has also anxiolytic (alleviation of anxiety) properties.
Today, chlorpromazine is considered a typical antipsychotic.
2,4,5-Trichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4,5-T), a synthetic auxin, is a chlorophenoxy acetic acid herbicide used to defoliate broad-leafed plants.
It was developed in the late 1940s and was widely used in the agricultural industry until being phased out, starting in the late 1970s due to toxicity concerns.
Agent Orange, a defoliant used by the U.S. in the Vietnam War, was equal parts 2,4,5-T and 2,4-D.
Insulin-like polypeptides made by the liver and some fibroblasts and released into the blood when stimulated by SOMATOTROPIN.
They cause sulfate incorporation into collagen, RNA, and DNA synthesis, which are prerequisites to cell division and growth of the organism.
Tizoxanide, a metabolite of nitazoxanide, is also as effective as the parent drug.
A colorless liquid used as a solvent and an antiseptic.
It is one of the ketone bodies produced during ketoacidosis.
A prostaglandin is any member of a group of lipid compounds that are derived enzymatically from fatty acids and have important functions in the animal body.
Every prostaglandin contains 20 carbon atoms, including a 5-carbon ring.
They are mediators and have a variety of strong physiological effects; although they are technically hormones, they are rarely classified as such.
The prostaglandins together with the thromboxanes form the prostanoid class of fatty acid derivatives; the prostanoid class is a subclass of eicosanoids.
Desmin is a protein that in humans is encoded by the DES gene.
Desmin is only expressed in vertebrates, however homologous proteins are found in many organisms.
It is a 52kD protein that is a subunit of intermediate filaments in skeletal muscle tissue, smooth muscle tissue, and cardiac muscle tissue.
Desmin Related Myopathy (DRM or Desminopathy) is a subgroup of the myofibrillar myopathy diseases and is the result of a mutation in the gene that codes for desmin which prevents it from forming protein filaments, instead forming aggregates of desmin and other proteins throughout the cell.
It is also associated with Sarcoma botryoides (rhabdomyosarcoma variant) - a spindle-shaped vaginal carcinoma that affects girls < 4 years of age.
The Bay or Laurel tree is a generally small, hardy evergreen tree or shrub with inconspicuous white flowers, small blackish berries and glossy aromatic leaves that are used for flavouring in cooking.
Anecdotal evidence suggests that Bay leaf may cause symptoms of food allergy in sensitised individuals; however, no studies have been reported to date.
A number of reports have described allergic dermatitis resulting from contact with Bay leaf.
Occupational asthma from inhalation of Bay leaf allergen may occur.
Ustilago avenae is a plant pathogen.
Human parainfluenza viruses (hPIVs) are a group of four distinct serotypes of enveloped single-stranded RNA viruses belonging to the paramyxovirus family.
The hPIV genome contains the following six gene segments: hemagglutinin-neuraminidase (HN), fusion protein (F), matrix protein (M), nucleoprotein (NP), phosphoprotein (P), and large/polymerase protein (L) genes.
PCR-based methods targeting nucleic acid sequences specific to one of the six segments are used to detect and identify hPIVs serotypes.
The PKLR gene (pyruvate kinase, liver and RBC) is located on chromosome 1q21.
The protein encoded by this gene is a pyruvate kinase that catalyzes the transphosphorylation of phohsphoenolpyruvate into pyruvate and ATP, which is the rate-limiting step of glycolysis.
Defects in this enzyme, due to gene mutations or genetic variations, are the common cause of chronic hereditary nonspherocytic hemolytic anemia (CNSHA or HNSHA).
Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
pH is a measure of the acidity or basicity of a solution.
It is defined as the cologarithm of dissolved hydrogen ions (H+).
Hydrogen ion activity coefficients cannot be measured experimentally, so they are based on theoretical calculations.
The pH scale is not an absolute one, it is relative to a set of internationally established standard solutions.
pH 7.0 is considered neutral.
The BCL6 gene (B-cell CLL/lymphoma 6) is located on chromosome 3q27.
The protein encoded by this gene is a zinc finger transcription factor and contains an N-terminal POZ domain.
This protein acts as a sequence-specific repressor of transcription, and has been shown to modulate the transcription of START-dependent IL-4 responses of B cells.
This protein can interact with a variety of POZ-containing proteins that function as transcription corepressors.
This gene is found to be frequently translocated and hypermutated in diffuse large-cell lymphoma (DLCL), and may be involved in the pathogenesis of DLCL.
Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different protein isoforms have been found for this gene.
Rituximab (trade names Rituxan, MabThera and Zytux) is a chimeric monoclonal antibody against the protein CD20, which is primarily found on the surface of immune system B cells.
Rituximab destroys B cells and is thus used to treat diseases that are characterized by excessive numbers of B cells, overactive B cells, or dysfunctional B cells.
This includes many lymphomas, leukemia, transplant rejection and autoimmune disorders.
Rituximab is also used with methotrexate to treat moderate-to-severe forms of rheumatoid arthritis to decrease joint pain and swelling.
It is usually used for arthritis only after other medications have not worked.
It is also used to treat certain types of blood vessel disease (such as Wegener's granulomatosis, microscopic polyangiitis).
The date that someone departed from their travel destination (e.g., to return home).
This may or may not be the same as the date of arrival home, depending on the origin, destination, transportation method, departure and/or arrival times.
Veterinary Medicine: The Escherichia coli (EC) stx2e encodes Shiga-like toxin 2e (Stx2e).
This toxin is excreted by EC that infects newly weaned pigs and causes edema disease.
This EC toxin does not affect humans.
The symptoms of edema disease include neurological disorders, hemorrhagic lesions, and is often fatal.
Stx2e is made up of an enzymatically active A subunit and five B subunits.
The B subunits bind to glycolipid receptors of the host cells.
A recently developed neutralizing nanobody has been produced to bind to the B subunits and prevent them from binding to the host cell.
This nanobody will likely be used to treat edema disease in pigs in the future.
A peptide, of about 33 amino acids, secreted by the upper INTESTINAL MUCOSA and also found in the central nervous system.
It causes gallbladder contraction, release of pancreatic exocrine (or digestive) enzymes, and affects other gastrointestinal functions.
Cholecystokinin may be the mediator of satiety.
Psuedocasts are structures often seen in urine sediment that may resemble and be confused for hyaline casts.
The pseudocast can be colorless like the hyaline cast, but can also have pigments that are derived from hemoglobin, myoglobin, or bilirubin present in the urine.
The pseudocast is not formed from the secretions of Tamm-Horsfall mucoprotein by the renal tubules like true hyaline casts are.
Unlike hyaline casts, pseudocasts lack uniformity in size and shape.
Pseudo casts have no diagnostic importance.
The volume of wine consumed.
An abnormal hemoglobin composed of four beta chains.
It is caused by the reduced synthesis of the alpha chain.
This abnormality results in ALPHA-THALASSEMIA.
Broccoli is considered to be a further development of Cauliflower and originated around the Mediterranean.
It has only been known since the 18th century.
It prefers areas with mild winters such as Italy, France, England, California, the Southern American States and sub-tropical Africa.
Anecdotal evidence suggests that Broccoli can occasionally induce symptoms of food allergy in sensitised individuals; however, few studies have been reported to date.
Methylphenobarbital, also known as mephobarbital, (marketed in the US under the brand name Mebaral by Ovation) is a drug which is a barbiturate derivative.
Methylphenobarbital is used as a sedative, anxiolytic and anticonvulsant.
It is the N-methylated analogue of phenobarbital, and has similar indications, therapeutic value, and tolerability.
Protriptyline (Vivactil®) is a tricyclic antidepressant indicated for depression and ADHD.
Di^a is found mainly in populations of Mongolian descent and is capable of capable of causing a moderate to severe delayed transfusion reaction.
It is found in 36% of South American Indians, 12% of Japanese, and 12% of Chinese, whereas it is rare in Caucasians and Blacks (0.01%). .
Male germ cells derived from the haploid secondary SPERMATOCYTES.
Without further division, spermatids undergo structural changes and give rise to SPERMATOZOA.
Knee Injury and Osteoarthritis Outcome Score
Cytoplasmic refers the part of a cell that is enclosed within the plasma membrane.
In eukaryotic cells the cytoplasm contains organelles, such as mitochondria, that are filled with liquid kept separate from the rest of the cytoplasm by biological membranes.
The cytoplasm is the site where most cellular activities occur, such as many metabolic pathways, and processes such as cell division.
Direct or indirect contact with animal allergens frequently causes sensitisation.
The Mink is a small mammal of the Mustelidae family.
This animal is a semi-aquatic carnivore related to the Weasel, and characterised by a slender body and thick, soft, dark-brown, durable fur that is highly valued commercially
Erythrocyte complement receptor 1 (CR1, also known as CD35, C3b/C4b receptor and immune adherence receptor) is a human gene.
This protein encoded by this gene is a member of the receptors of complement activation (RCA) family and is located in the 'cluster RCA' region of chromosome 1.
The gene encodes a monomeric single-pass type I membrane glycoprotein found on erythrocytes, leukocytes, glomerular podocytes, and splenic follicular dendritic cells.
The Knops blood group system is a system of antigens located on this protein.
The protein mediates cellular binding to particles and immune complexes that have activated complement.
Decreases in expression of this protein and/or mutations in its gene have been associated with gallbladder carcinomas, mesangiocapillary glomerulonephritis, systemic lupus erythematosus and sarcoidosis.
Mutations in this gene have also been associated with a reduction in Plasmodium falciparum rosetting, conferring protection against severe malaria.
Alternate allele-specific splice variants, encoding different isoforms, have been characterized.
Additional allele specific isoforms, including a secreted form, have been described but have not been fully characterized.
Redtop is native to Eurasia and North Africa.
It was probably introduced to North America prior to 1750, and has become naturalized throughout the southern Canadian provinces and most of the United States, Australia, New Zealand and South Africa.
It is established in other temperate climates throughout the world as a turf but usually not a pasture grass.
Redtop pollen can induce asthma, allergic rhinitis and allergic conjunctivitis.
The anterior-inferior angle formed by the intersection of the Sella-Nasion plane and the Sella-Gnathion line
Derivative of 7-dehydroxycholesterol formed by ultraviolet rays breaking of the C9-C10 bond.
It differs from ergocalciferol in having a single bond between C22 and C23 and lacking a methyl group at C24.
Esterified carnitine in blood.
L-carnitine is essential for the transport of free fatty acids into mitochondria where fatty acids are oxidized from fat to produce energy.
Low carnitine levels in skeletal muscle, liver, heart, and kidneys result in decreased ability of these tissues to utilize long chain fatty acids as an energy source.
Low levels indicate muscle carnitine weakness or secondary carnitine deficiency associated with renal failure, cirrhosis, and many other defects.
Azatadine is an antihistamine and anticholinergic.
Lymphoma cells orginate in the lymphoid system.
When these B or T cells from the lymph system become abnormal, the result is a lymphoma.
Lymphoma is classified into two categories: Hodgkin and Non-Hodgkin's lymphoma.
Lactase one part of the β-galactosidase family of enzymes, is a glycoside hydrolase involved in the hydrolysis of the disaccharide lactose into constituent galactose and glucose monomers.
Lactase is present predominantly along the brush border membrane of the differentiated enterocytes lining the villi of the small intestine.
In humans, lactase is encoded by the LCT gene.
Pro prostate specific antigen (proPSA) isoform 2, also known as proPSA, p2PSA, and 2pPSA, is one of four isoforms of proPSA.
All four isoforms are specific for prostate cancer, but p2PSA has been shown to be the most elevated in men with prostate cancer compared to those with negative biopsies.
The Prostate Health Index (PHI) is a calculation that includes PSA, free PSA, and p2PSA.
The PHI has been found to be a diagnostic marker for prostate cancer, and may also be a marker of metastatic prostate cancer in patients who have undergone previous resection .
The TGM1 gene (transglutaminase 1) is located on chromosome 14q11.2.
The protein encoded by this gene is a membrane protein that catalyzes the addition of an alkyl group from an akylamine to a glutamine residue of a protein, forming an alkylglutamine in the protein.
This protein alkylation leads to crosslinking of proteins and catenation of polyamines to proteins.
This gene contains either one or two copies of a 22 nt repeat unit in its 3' UTR.
Mutations in this gene have been associated with autosomal recessive lamellar ichthyosis (LI) and nonbullous congenital ichthyosiform erythroderma (NCIE).
Brallobarbital is a barbiturate developed in the 1920s that has sedative and hypnotic properties.
It is a component of Vesparax, which is composed of 150 mg secobarbital, 50 mg brallobarbital and 50 mg hydroxyzine.
It was used for treating insomnia but was essentially discontinued once newer drugs with lesser side effects were developed.
An antipsychotic agent used in schizophrenia.
Gramicidin is a heterogeneous mixture of six antibiotic compounds, Gramicidins A, B and C, making up 80%, 6%, and 14% respectively, all of which are obtained from the soil bacterial species Bacillus brevis and called collectively Gramicidin D. Gramicidin D are linear pentadecapeptides; that is chains made up of 15 amino acids.
This is in contrast to Gramicidin S which is a cyclic peptide chain.
Gramicidin is active against Gram-positive bacteria, except for the Gram-positive bacilli, and against select Gram-negative organisms, such as Neisseria bacteria.
Its therapeutic use is limited to topical application as it induces hemolysis in lower concentrations than bacteria cell death, thus cannot be administered internally.
The exterior epidermis is composed of dead cells, thus applying it to the surface of the skin will not cause harm.
It is used primarily as a topical antibiotic and is one of the three constituents of consumer antibiotic Neosporin Ophthalmic Solution.
In 1939 the French-American microbiologist René Dubos isolated the substance tyrothricin and later showed that it was composed of two substances, gramicidin (20%) and tyrocidine (80%).
These were the first antibiotics to be manufactured commercially.
The mallein test is a sensitive and specific clinical test for glanders.
Mallein, a protein fraction of the glanders organism (Burkholderia mallei), is injected intradermo-palpebrally or given by eye-drop.
In infected animals, the eyelid swells markedly in 1 or 2 days.
Testing is usually perfomed on horses.
The nectarine is a cultivar group of peach that has a smooth skin.
Though fuzzy peaches and nectarines are regarded commercially as different fruits, with nectarines often erroneously believed to be a crossbreed between peaches and plums, or a "peach with a plum skin", they belong to the same species as peaches.
Equine herpesvirus 1 (EHV-1) is a virus of the family Herpesviridae that causes abortion in horses.
Initial spread of EHV-1 by a newly introduced horse through direct and indirect contact can lead to abortion and perinatal infection in up to 70 percent of a previously unexposed herd.
Abortion usually occurs in the last four months of gestation, two to four weeks after infection of the mare.
Perinatal (around the time of birth) infection can lead to pneumonia and death.
Encephalitis can occur in affected animals, leading to ataxia, paralysis, and death.
There is a vaccine available.
The COCH gene (cochlin) is located on chromosome 14q11.2-q13.
The protein encoded by this gene is highly conserved in human, mouse, and chicken, showing 94% and 79% amino acid identity of human to mouse and chicken sequences, respectively.
Hybridization to this gene was detected in spindle-shaped cells located along nerve fibers between the auditory ganglion and sensory epithelium.
These cells accompany neurites at the habenula perforata, the opening through which neurites extend to innervate hair cells.
This and the pattern of expression of this gene in chicken inner ear paralleled the histologic findings of acidophilic deposits, consistent with mucopolysaccharide ground substance, in temporal bones from DFNA9 (autosomal dominant nonsyndromic sensorineural deafness 9) patients.
Mutations that cause DFNA9 have been reported in this gene.
Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding the same protein.
Additional splice variants encoding distinct isoforms have been described but their biological validities have not been demonstrated.
A chemical, which may result in allergy symptoms in sensitised individuals.
Metformin is an oral antidiabetic drug in the biguanide class.
It is the first-line drug of choice for the treatment of type 2 diabetes, in particular, in overweight and obese people and those with normal kidney function.
Its use in gestational diabetes has been limited by safety concerns.
It is also used in the treatment of polycystic ovary syndrome, and has been investigated for other diseases where insulin resistance may be an important factor.
Metformin works by suppressing glucose production by the liver.
Excessive secrition of uroporphyrin in the urine is associated with uroporphyria, a rare genetic disease characterized by blistering dermatitis, photosensitivity, splenomegaly, and hemolytic anemia.
Glutamic acid (Glu), also referred to as glutamate (the anion), is one of the 20 proteinogenic, essential amino acids.
Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, usually abbreviated to NSAIDs-but also referred to as nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory agents/analgesics (NSAIAs) or nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory medicines (NSAIMs)-are a class of drugs that provide analgesic and antipyretic (fever-reducing) effects, and, in higher doses, anti-inflammatory effects.
The term "nonsteroidal" distinguishes these drugs from steroids, which, among a broad range of other effects, have a similar eicosanoid-depressing, anti-inflammatory action.
As analgesics, NSAIDs are unusual in that they are non narcotic.
The most prominent members of this group of drugs are aspirin, ibuprofen, and naproxen, all of which are available over the counter in most countries.
A short-acting benzodiazepine used in the treatment of insomnia.
Some countries temporarily withdrew triazolam from the market because of concerns about adverse reactions, mostly psychological, associated with higher dose ranges.
Its use at lower doses with appropriate care and labeling has been reaffirmed by the FDA and most other countries.
This gene encodes a protein of the tripartite motif (TRIM) family.
The TRIM motif includes zinc-binding domains, a RING finger region, a B-box motif and a coiled-coil domain.
TRIM46 is reported to be involved in the proliferation of multiple types of cancer cells including lung and breast cancer.
It has also been shown to control neuronal polarity and axon specification by forming uniform microtubule bundles in the axon
A sulfide (sulphide in British English) is an anion of sulfur in its lowest oxidation number of −2.
Sulfide is also a slightly archaic term for thioethers, a common type of organosulfur compound that are well known for their bad odors.
Probably native of the tropics, Sweet Peppers are grown mainly in China; the Dominican Republic, Haiti, Hawaii, Iraq, Japan, Malaya, Mexico, Spain, Hungary and Turkey.
Most commercial Paprika comes from Spain, South America, California and Hungary, with the Hungarian variety considered by many to be superior.
It is used as a spice in many cuisines worldwide.
C. annuum (Sweet Pepper), as opposed to C. frutescens (Chili or Cayenne Pepper), is used mainly as a vegetable.
Sweet Pepper or spices made from Sweet Pepper may induce symptoms of food allergy, rhinitis and contact dermatitis in sensitised individuals.
Urticaria as a result of contact with Paprika has been documented.
Angelman syndrome risk refers to the fetus's risk of having Angelman syndrome.
The risk for the fetus can be derived from the general population risk as well as prenatal genetic testing of fetal DNA.Angelman syndrome is primarily caused by the functional loss of the UBE3A gene on chromosome 15.
In certain areas of the brain, only the maternal copy of this gene is active due to genomic imprinting, and in Angelman syndrome, the maternal copy is missing.
The genetic basis for Angelman syndrome is the inverse of the basis for Prader-Willi syndrome, in which the paternal copy of certain genes on chromosome 15 are missing.
About 70% of cases are due to the deletion of a portion of the maternal chromosome 15, and another 11% are due to a mutation in the maternal copy of UBE3A. Cases may also be due to the presence of two paternal chromosome 15 copies (called uniparental disomy, meaning two copies from one parent) instead of one maternal and one paternal, chromosomal translocation, or abnormal inactivation of genes on maternal chromosome 15.
In 10 to 15% of cases, the cause is unknown.
Angelman syndrome is associated with cognitive delay, seizure disorder, speech impairment, and microcephaly.
Children with Angelman syndrome exhibit a happy appearance with frequent smiling, laughing, and hand-flapping, as well as hyperactivity and short attention span.
The general population risk of Angelman syndrome is about 1 in 12,000 - 20,000 live births, and does not change with maternal age.
β-Sitosterol is one of several phytosterols (plant sterols) with chemical structures similar to that of cholesterol.
Alone and in combination with similar phytosterols, β-sitosterol reduces blood levels of cholesterol, and is sometimes used in treating hypercholesterolemia.
β-sitosterol inhibits cholesterol absorption in the intestine, reducing the levels of LDL and total serum cholesterol.
β-Sitosterol is not recommended for individuals with sitosterolemia, a rare inherited fat storage disease.
Because people with this condition have too much β-sitosterol and related fats in their system, taking β-sitosterol will only worsen this condition.
High levels of β-sitosterol concentrations in blood have been correlated with increased severity of heart disease in men having previously suffered from heart attacks.
Atropine is a widely used premedication drug for the prevention of vagal bradycardia and especially in strabismus surgery.
Uncommon for anaphylactic shock.
Verona integron-encoded metallo-β-lactamase (VIM) is part of a growing family of carbapenemases and includes at least 10 members.
VIMs are one of the most common types of carbapenemases, with many variants in at least 23 species of Gram-negative bacilli from more than 40 regions of the world.
Studies have shown that a high percentage of patients with immunodeficiency and drug resistant nosocomial infections are infected with a VIM or IMP producing organism, particularly when the organism identified is Pseudomonas aeruginosa.
The two genes are often present together although they can also be present individually.
Identifying the presence of these genes is important in monitoring drug resistance and determining the best antibiotic therapy methods.
Chlorpropamide is a sulphonylurea drug used to treat type 2 diabetes mellitus.
Its renal clearance and long half-life cause hypoglycemia as a side effect more frequently than newer sulphonylureas.
A broad-spectrum antimicrobial fluoroquinolone.
The drug strongly inhibits the DNA-supercoiling activity of DNA GYRASE.
The Box elder tree belongs to Acer (Maple), a genus of trees and shrubs, variously classified in a family of their own, the Aceraceae, or (together with the Hippocastanaceae) included in the family Sapindaceae.
Box elder is native to eastern and Midwestern North America.
It has the broadest range of the North American Maples, and is found throughout eastern and central North America.
Box elder pollen will result in asthma, hay fever and allergic conjunctivitis in susceptible individuals.
The ASPA gene (aspartoacylase) is located on chromosome 17p13.3.
This gene encodes an enzyme that catalyzes the conversion of N-acetyl_L-aspartic acid (NAA) to aspartate and acetate.
NAA is abundant in the brain where hydrolysis by aspartoacylase is thought to help maintain white matter.
This protein is an NAA scavenger in other tissues.
Mutations in this gene cause Canavan disease.
Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been found for this gene.
Neutrophils are white blood cells that are critical to the healthy function of the immune system.
They are drawn to sites of infection and injury to phagocytose and digest microbes.
Neutrophils rely on their ability to generate an oxidative burst to effectively kill microorganisms.
The oxidative burst is a series of reactions involving NADPH oxidase that is triggered by receptors when they encounter bacterial peptides such as N-formyl-Met-Leu-Phe (fMLP) and phorbol myristate acetate (PMA) and which results in the production of superoxide anions and reactive oxygen species (ROS).
The inability of neutrophils to create an oxidative burst can lead to a decreased ability to fight infection.
Chronic granulomatous disease (CGD) is an x-linked or autosomal-recessive disorder where NADPH oxidase is improperly assembled which leads to an inadequate oxidative burst response and increased susceptibility to bacterial and fungal infections.
One method of assessing neutrophil function uses flow cytometry to measure the fluorescence of neutrophils that have been stimulated in the presence of the nonfluorescent dye dihydrorhodamine 123 (DHR 123), which, when oxidized, produces the fluorescent compound rhodamine 123.
Both the percent of neutrophils having a burst response and the efficacy of that response as reflected by the mean fluorescence intensity (MFI) is measured.
Depending on the underlying genetic cause and severity of CGD, some patients have a population of neutrophils that can generate a burst response but with lower MFI compared to healthy controls, while others only have neutrophils that are not capable of generating a response at all.
The SBDS gene (Shwachman-Bodian-Diamond syndrome) is located on chromosome 7q11.21.
This gene encodes a member of a highly conserved protein family that exists from archaea to vertebrates and plants.
The encoded protein may function in RNA metabolism.
Mutations within this gene are associated with Shwachman-Bodian-Diamond syndrome.
An alternative transcript has been described, but its biological nature has not been determined.
This gene has a closely linked pseudogene that is distally located.
The CIAS1 gene (NLR family, pyrin domain containing 3) gene is located on chromosome 1q44.
This gene encodes a pyrin-like protein containing a pyrin domain, a nucleotide-binding site (NBS) domain, and a leucine-rich repeat (LRR) motif.
This protein interacts with the apoptosis-associated speck-like protein PYCARD/ASC, which contains a caspase recruitment domain, and is a member of the NALP3 inflammasome complex.
This complex functions as an upstream activator of NF-kappaB signaling, and it plays a role in the regulation of inflammation, the immune response, and apoptosis.
Mutations in this gene are associated with familial cold autoinflammatory syndrome (FCAS), Muckle-Wells syndrome (MWS), chronic infantile neurological cutaneous and articular (CINCA) syndrome, and neonatal-onset multisystem inflammatory disease (NOMID).
Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms have been identified for this gene.
Alternative 5' UTR structures are suggested by available data; however, insufficient evidence is available to determine if all of the represented 5' UTR splice patterns are biologically valid.
Peroxidase negative cells too large to be classified as lymphocytes or basophils.
The BIRC3 gene encodes a member of the IAP family of proteins that inhibit apoptosis by binding to tumor necrosis factor receptor-associated factors TRAF1 and TRAF2, probably by interfering with activation of ICE-like proteases.
The encoded protein inhibits apoptosis induced by serum deprivation but does not affect apoptosis resulting from exposure to menadione, a potent inducer of free radicals.
It contains 3 baculovirus IAP repeats and a ring finger domain.
Transcript variants encoding the same isoform have been identified.
BIRC3 is thought to be important in the pathophysiology of chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL), based on the observation of loss of function mutations via its role in modulating NF-kb signaling. .
A semisynthetic cephamycin antibiotic that is administered intravenously or intramuscularly.
The drug is highly resistant to a broad spectrum of beta-lactamases and is active against a wide range of both aerobic and anaerobi, gram-positive and gram-negative microorganisms.
Distance from Labrale superius to soft tissue Pogonion
Throbopoietin is a glycosylated polypeptide that may have a key role in the development of megakaryocytes
Glutamine (Gln) is one of the 20 amino acids encoded by the standard genetic code.
Its side chain is an amide formed by replacing a hydroxyl of glutamic acid with an amine group.
A selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor.
It is effective in the treatment of depression, obsessive-compulsive disorders, anxiety, panic disorders, and alcohol amnestic disorders.
Gya is one of the Dombrock system antigens.
Antibodies to this antigen are associated with more rapid death of incompatible transfused red blood cell
Paecilomyces is a nematophagous fungus which kills (harmful) nematodes by pathogenesis, or causing disease in the nematodes
Methylmalonate (methylmalonic acid) is measured as a second-tier assay when abnormal propionyl carnitine or methionine concentrations are identified in a primary newborn screening.
Methylmalonic acidemia (MMA) and propionic acidemia (PA) are defects of propionate metabolism caused by deficiencies in methylmalonyl-CoA mutase and propionyl-CoA carboxylase, respectively.
The clinical phenotype of both conditions includes vomiting, hypotonia, lethargy, apnea, hypothermia, and coma.
The biochemical phenotype for MMA includes elevated methylmalonic acid, propionyl carnitine and methylcitric acid, while patients with PA have elevated propionyl carnitine and methylcitric acid with normal methylmalonic acid concentrations as the enzymatic defect is upstream of methylmalonic-CoA mutase.
Colistimethate reduces the development of drug-resistant bacteria and maintain the effectiveness of colistimethate for injection and other antibacterial drugs, colistimethate for injection should be used only to treat or prevent infections that are proven or strongly suspected to be caused by bacteria.
Cabozantinib is an antineoplastic medication used to treat several types of cancer.
In its capsule form, it is effective for metastatic medullary thyroid cancer.
The tablet form is used for advanced kidney cancer, either alone or in combination with nivolumab as a first-line treatment.
Additionally, cabozantinib is indicated for previously treated hepatocellular carcinoma (liver cancer) and for metastatic differentiated thyroid cancer in patients who are unable to receive radioactive iodine and have not responded well to prior treatments.
This medication works by interfering with the growth of cancer cells, leading to their eventual destruction by the body.
Sperm with nonprogressive motility are able to swim, but have an abnormal trajectory, often circular.
The urea reduction ratio (URR), is a dimensionless number used to quantify hemodialysis treatment adequacy.
The largemouth bass (Micropterus salmoides) is a species of fish in the sunfish family.
It is also known as widemouth bass, bigmouth, black bass, bucketmouth, Florida bass, Florida largemouth, green bass, green trout, linesides, Oswego bass, southern largemouth and (paradoxically) northern largemouth.
The largemouth bass is the state fish of Alabama (official freshwater fish), Georgia, Mississippi, Florida (state freshwater fish), and Tennessee (official sport fish).
Penicillin (sometimes abbreviated PCN) refers to a group of Beta-lactam antibiotics used in the treatment of bacterial infections caused by susceptible, usually Gram-positive, organisms.
The name "O.E. penicillin" can also refer to a specific member of the penicillin group.
All penicillins possess the basic Penam Skeleton, formula R-C9 H11 N2 O4 S, where R is a variable side chain.
A chlorinated hydrocarbon that has been used as an inhalation anesthetic and acts as a narcotic in high concentrations.
Its primary use is as a solvent in manufacturing and food technology.
Ethylene glycol dinitrate (EGDN), also known as nitroglycol, is a chemical compound a yellowish, oily explosive liquid obtained by nitrating ethylene glycol.
It is similar to nitroglycerin in both manufacture and properties, though it is more volatile and less viscous.
NXL103 (formerly XRP 2868), a combination of linopristin and flopristin, is an experimental drug candidate under development by Novexel.
It is an oral streptogramin antibiotic that has potent in vitro activity against certain Gram positive bacteria including methicillin resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA) as well as the important respiratory pathogens including penicillin-, macrolide- and quinolone-resistant strains.
A naturally occurring dipeptide neuropeptide found in muscles.
One of the MONOAMINE OXIDASE INHIBITORS used to treat DEPRESSION; PHOBIC DISORDERS; and PANIC.
The mineralocorticoid receptor (or MR, MLR, MCR), also called aldosterone receptor, is officially labelled nuclear receptor subfamily 3, group C, member 2, (NR3C2) and is a receptor with high affinity for mineralocorticoids.
It belongs to the steroid hormone receptor family where the ligand diffuses into cells, interacts with the receptor and results in a signal transduction affecting specific gene expression in the nucleus.
Platelets are miniature fragments of cytoplasm that break off of megakaryocytes.
Their primary function is to inhibit excessive hemorrhage after blood vessel injury.
Platelets cling to the damaged part of the blood vessel where they become activated, recruit other platelets to the site, and begin the cascade of physical and chemical events that lead to clot formation.
Activated platelets secrete cytokines, chemokines, and growth factors, all which play a role in thrombus development.
When activated, platelets stimulate monocytes and neutrophils to leave the blood vessel and enter the tissue.
The normal range of platelets is 150,000 to 450,000 platelets/uL. Lower than normal platelet counts can lead to increased bleeding and is caused by a number of factors including: chemotherapy, autoimmune disorders and some medications.
Increased platelets can cause hypercoagulation due to cancer, anemia, spleen removal and some medications.
Cup a 1 is a specific marker for primary sensitization to Cupressaeceae pollen, e.g. cypresses, cedars and junipers.
A genus of gram-positive, coccoid bacteria consisting of organisms causing variable hemolysis that are normal flora of the intestinal tract.
Previously thought to be a member of the genus Streptococcus, it is now recognized as a separate genus.
A group of abnormal hemoglobins in which amino acid substitutions take place in either the alpha or beta chains but near the heme iron.
This results in facilitated oxidation of the hemoglobin to yield excess methemoglobin which leads to cyanosis.
A neoplasm which invades serous cavities can cause malignant cells to be seen in body fluid specimens.
The cells have increased cell and nuclear size, irregularly shaped nuclei, large nucleoli, high nuclear to cytomplasmic ratio, and atypical nuclear chromatin patterns.
The cells can be numerous or rarely seen; some can form large clusters.
Source: 2010 Hematology and Clinical Microscopy Glossary by College of Americal Pathologists (CAP).
The F5 gene (coagulation factor V (proaccelerin, labile factor)) is located on chromosome 1q23.
This gene encodes an essential cofactor of the blood coagulation cascade.
This factor circulates in plasma, and is converted to the active form by the release of the activation peptide by thrombin during coagulation.
This generates a heavy chain and a light chain which are held together by calcium ions.
The activated protein is a cofactor that participates with activated coagulation factor X to activate prothrombin to thrombin.
Defects in this gene result in either an autosomal recessive hemorrhagic diathesis or an autosomal dominant form of thrombophilia, which is known as activated protein C resistance.
Pimelic acid is a group of compounds that are derivatives of heptanedioic acid with the general formula R-C7H11O4.
A proteolytic enzyme obtained from Carica papaya.
It is also the name used for a purified mixture of papain and CHYMOPAPAIN that is used as a topical enzymatic debriding agent. .
A cytologist studies cells - their physiological properties, their structure, the organelles they contain, interactions with their environment, their life cycle, division and death.
This is done both on a microscopic and molecular level.
Cell biology research encompasses both the great diversity of single-celled organisms like bacteria and protozoa, as well as the many specialized cells in multicellular organisms like humans.
During systole, the radial wall thickens.
Radial strain is related to stroke volume.
Sensitivity of peak radial systolic strain to changes in contractile state and loading conditions using two-dimensional images has been well documented.
Significantly low radial peak systolic strain and strain rate values have been found in patients with acute rejection ≥ grade 1B.
Among patients with biopsy-proven acute rejection episodes ≥ grade 3, there was a significant reduction in diastolic radial, circumferential and longitudinal global peak strain and strain rate value in comparison to values before rejection.
A sudden drop of ≥ 15% of the radial global strain rate in heart transplant patients appeared highly predictive for acute biopsy proven rejection.
The F8 gene (coagulation factor VIII, procoagulant component) is located on chromosome Xq28.
This gene encodes coagulation factor VIII, which participates in the intrinsic pathway of blood coagulation; factor VIII is a cofactor for factor IXa which, in the presence of Ca+2 and phospholipids, converts factor X to the activated form Xa.
This gene produces two alternatively spliced transcripts.
Transcript variant 1 encodes a large glycoprotein, isoform a, which circulates in plasma and associates with von Willebrand factor in a noncovalent complex.
This protein undergoes multiple cleavage events.
Transcript variant 2 encodes a putative small protein, isoform b, which consists primarily of the phospholipid binding domain of factor VIIIc.
This binding domain is essential for coagulant activity.
Defects in this gene results in hemophilia A, a common recessive X-linked coagulation disorder.
In hematology, target cells are abnormal red blood cells (RBC), that have a "bullseye" appearance.
RBC target cells are associated with hemoglobin C (HbC) disease, asplenia, liver disease, thalassemia and severe iron deficiency anemia.
3-Hydroxyhexanoylcarnitine is a primary marker for Short-chain L-3-hydroxy acyl-CoA dehydrogenase deficiency and Medium-chain ketoacyl-CoA thiolase deficiency.
Secondary marker for Short-chain L-3-hydroxy acyl-CoA dehydrogenase deficiency, Medium-chain ketoacyl-CoA thiolase deficiency
The PSEN1 gene (presenilin 1) is located on chromosome 14q24.3.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) patients with an inherited form of the disease carry mutations in the presenilin proteins (PSEN1; PSEN2) or in the amyloid precursor protein (APP).
These disease-linked mutations result in increased production of the longer form of amyloid-beta (main component of amyloid deposits found in AD brains).
Presenilins are postulated to regulate APP processing through their effects on gamma-secretase, an enzyme that cleaves APP.
Also, it is thought that the presenilins are involved in the cleavage of the Notch receptor, such that they either directly regulate gamma-secretase activity or themselves are protease enzymes.
Several alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been identified for this gene, the full-length nature of only some have been determined.
O group not characterized by presence of O Ag
A potent anti-arrhythmia agent, effective in a wide range of ventricular and atrial arrhythmias and tachycardias.
Paradoxically, however, in myocardial infarct patients with either symptomatic or asymptomatic arrhythmia, flecainide exacerbates the arrhythmia and is not recommended for use in these patients.
Cytochrome P450 1A2 (CYP1A2)-mediated drug metabolism is highly variable and often based on a patient's genotype.
Genetic testing is performed to identifying patients who are poor, intermediate, extensive, or ultrarapid metabolizers of drugs metabolized by CYP1A2.
The CYP1A2 c.125C>G polymorphism is associated with greatly reduced metabolic activity of the CYP1A2 enzyme.
Human chorionic gonadotropin (hCG) is a peptide hormone produced in pregnancy, that is made by the embryo soon after conception and later by the syncytiotrophoblast (part of the placenta).
Its role is to prevent the disintegration of the corpus luteum of the ovary and thereby maintain progesterone production that is critical for a pregnancy in humans.
hCG may have additional functions, including affecting the immune tolerance of the pregnancy.
Early pregnancy testing generally is based on the detection or measurement of hCG.
4-hydroxyhippuric acid is a microbial end-product derived from polyphenol metabolism by the microflora in the intestine.
It is derived from 4-hydroxybenzoic acid derivatives which may undergo glycination in the liver and kidney.
Cyclobenzaprine is a muscle relaxant medication used to relieve skeletal muscle spasms and associated pain in acute musculoskeletal condition sand on an off label basis for fibromyalgia.
It has also been used illicitly to magnify the effects of other drugs.
Anecdotal reports suggest that individuals are taking cyclobenzaprine alone or in combination with other illicit drugs to produce or enhance psychoactive effects.
Toxic exposures for cyclobenzaprine are numerous and have resulted in serious medical outcomes and deaths (33 deaths in 2004)
The KIT gene (v-kit Hardy-Zuckerman 4 feline sarcoma viral oncogene homolog) is located on chromosome 4q12.
This gene encodes the human homolog of the proto-oncogene c-kit.
C-kit was first identified as the cellular homolog of the feline sarcoma viral oncogene v-kit.
This protein is a type 3 transmembrane receptor for MGF (mast cell growth factor, also known as stem cell factor).
Mutations in this gene are associated with gastrointestinal stromal tumors, mast cell disease, acute myelogenous lukemia, and piebaldism.
Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
Glutamine, (L-glutamine) is an amino acide traditionally considered nonessential, however it may be considered "conditionally essential" after critical illness, stress, or injury.
(Glutamine is different than glutamate (glutamic acid), monosodium glutamate, and gluten.)
It is the most abundant free amino acid in human muscle and plasma, and is important as a constituent of proteins and as a means of nitrogen transport between tissues.
Muscle is the major tissue involved in glutamine synthesis.
Glutamine is utilized at high rates by leukocytes (particularly lymphocytes) to provide energy and optimal conditions for nucleotide biosynthesis, and therefore cell proliferation metabolic requirements.
In times of stress (illness or prolonged exercise for example) there is an associated decrease in the intramuscular and plasma concentrations of glutamine, and it has been hypothesized that this decrease in glutamine availability could impair immune function.
Dietary sources of glutamine include plant and animal proteins such as beef, pork, poultry, milk, yogurt, ricotta cheese, cottage cheese, raw spinach, raw parsley, and cabbage.
Pyridine is a simple aromatic heterocyclic organic compound with the chemical formula C5H5N.
It is structurally related to benzene, with one CH group replaced by a nitrogen atom.
It is used as a precursor to agrochemicals and pharmaceuticals, and is also an important solvent and reagent.
It is a colorless liquid with a distinctive, unpleasant fish-like odor.
The pyridine ring occurs in many important compounds, including nicotinamides.
The human papilloma viruses (HPVs) belong to the family Papillomaviridae, which are small, nonenveloped deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) viruses.
The HPV genome includes DNA sequences for six early (E1, E2, E4, E5, E6, and E7) and two late (L1 and L2) proteins.
There are more than 100 types of HPV.
The viruses can be classified into high and low risk types based on their ability to cause cancer.
HPV is most often transmitted sexually but has been know to spread during nonsexual encounters and even rarely through fomites.
At least 40 HPV types can infect the genital area.
Most sexually active persons become infected with HPV at least once.
HPV types 16 and 18 are oncogenic, high risk and cause most cervical, penile, vulvar, vaginal, anal and oropharyngeal cancers and precancers.
Non oncogenic, low-risk HPV types (e.g., 6, 11) cause genital warts and recurrent respiratory papillomatosis.
Since subclinical genital HPV infection generally clears spontaneously, treatment is only directed to the macroscopic (e.g., genital warts) or pathologic HPV-caused precancerous lesions.
Cervical cancer is the only HPV-associated cancer for which routine screening is recommended.
Vaccines are available to protect against oncogenic as well as common nononcogenic types.
Serum proteins are the dominant allergens.
An alpha-adrenergic sympathomimetic amine, biosynthesized from tyramine in the CNS and platelets and also in invertebrate nervous systems.
It is used to treat hypotension and as a cardiotonic.
The natural D(-) form is more potent than the L(+) form in producing cardiovascular adrenergic responses.
It is also a neurotransmitter in some invertebrates.
The chemical 3,4,5-trimethylphenyl methylcarbamate is a highly toxic cholinesterase inhibitor.
It is used as an insecticide and miticide against rootworm in corn fields.
Symptoms of poisoning to 3,4,5-trimethylphenyl methylcarbamate include malaise, muscle weakness, dizziness, sweating, headache, salivation, nausea, vomiting, abdominal pain, and diarrhea, central nervous system depression, pulmonary edema.
3,4,5-trimethylphenyl methylcarbamate is moderately toxic to fish and other aquatic wildlife.
A monocyclic beta-lactam antibiotic originally isolated from Chromobacterium violaceum.
It is resistant to beta-lactamases and is used in gram-negative infections, especially of the meninges, bladder, and kidneys.
It may cause a superinfection with gram-positive organisms.
A consultation note is generated by a provider upon request for an opinion or advice from another provider.
Consultations may involve face-to-face time with the patient, telemedicine visits, or a second opinion on a diagnosis that does not involve interaction with a patient.
A consultation note is typically sent to the referring provider when the consultation is completed.
The TSC1 gene (tuberous sclerosis 1) is located on chromosome 9q34.
This gene encodes a growth inhibitory protein thought to play a role in the stabilization of tuberin.
Mutations in this gene have been associated with tuberous sclerosis.
Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants.
Thiosulfate is the anion S2 O3 2-.
Thiosulfates are only stable in neutral or alkaline solutions, but not in acidic solutions, due to decomposition to sulfite and sulfur, the sulfite being expelled as sulfur dioxide: S2 O3 2-(aq) + 2H+(aq) †' SO2 (g) + S(s) + H2 O
This reaction is usually used to generate a temporary aqueous suspension to demonstrate diffraction of light in physics.
If the light is shone from below, blue light is seen from above, and orange from sideways.
Uses of thiosulfates include the dissolving of silver salts from photographic film.
Changes in the CSF, plasma and urine levels of beta alanine, beta aminoisobutyrate (BAIB) and gamma aminobutyrate (GABA) may help identify certain metabolic disorders.
Beta alanine is a structural analogue of GABA and may also function as a neurotransmitter since it is both a glycine and GABAA receptor agonist.
Dihydropyrimidine dehydrogenase (DPD) is the first enzyme in the pyrimidine degradation pathway, in which uracil and thymine are catabolized to beta alanine and R-BAIB, respectively.
The S enantiomer of BAIB (S-BAIB) is derived from valine catabolism.
Under normal circumstances, urine contains predominantly R-BAIB (from thymine) because it is eliminated by filtration and tubular secretion, while plasma contains about 80% S-BAIB (from valine), which is reabsorbed in the kidneys.
In patients with a DPD deficiency, uracil and thymine catabolism is decreased.
This results in mildly decreased plasma and urine concentrations and normal CSF concentration of beta alanine, and moderately decreased CSF concentration and markedly decreased plasma concentration of BAIB.
On the other hand, urine BAIB is elevated, which indicates that there must be cross-over in the thymine and valine degradation pathways.
Hemoglobin A1c refers to hemoglobin components formed by interaction of hemoglobin with glucose.
This interaction is a non-enzymatic irreversible process that is dependent on glucose concentration.
RBC half-life is approx 120 days so a measurement can yield the average glucose concentration over the last 8 to 12 weeks.
Orciprenaline (INN, also known as metaproterenol) is a bronchodilator used in the treatment of asthma.
Orciprenaline is a moderately selective beta2-adrenergic receptor agonist that stimulates receptors of the smooth muscle in the lungs, uterus, and vasculature supplying skeletal muscle, with minimal or no effect on alpha-adrenergic receptors.
The pharmacologic effects of beta adrenergic agonist drugs, such as orciprenaline, are at least in part attributable to stimulation through beta adrenergic receptors of intracellular adenyl cyclase, the enzyme which catalyzes the conversion of ATP to cAMP.
Increased cAMP levels are associated with relaxation of bronchial smooth muscle and inhibition of release of mediators of immediate hypersensitivity from many cells, especially from mast cells.
The MRPL40 gene (mitochondrial ribosomal protein L40) is located on chromosome 22q11.2.
Mammalian mitochondrial ribosomal proteins are encoded by nuclear genes and help in protein synthesis within the mitochondrion.
Mitochondrial ribosomes (mitoribosomes) consist of a small 28S subunit and a large 39S subunit.
They have an estimated 75% protein to rRNA composition compared to prokaryotic ribosomes, where this ratio is reversed.
Another difference between mammalian mitoribosomes and prokaryotic ribosomes is that the latter contain a 5S rRNA.
Among different species, the proteins comprising the mitoribosome differ greatly in sequence, and sometimes in biochemical properties, which prevents easy recognition by sequence homology.
This gene encodes a 39S subunit protein.
Deletions in this gene may contribute to the etiology of velo-cardio-facial syndrome and DiGeorge syndrome.
A plant species of the genus PINUS that contains isocupressic acid.
Bufencarb is a carbamate cholinesterase inhibitor insecticide that was applied to corn, forage, fodder, maize, and rice to control corn rootworm larvae, rice stemborers, rice green leafhoppers, and root mealbugs.
It is highly toxic and exposure can result in symptoms including malaise, muscle weakness, dizziness, sweating, headache, salivation, nausea, vomiting, abdominal pain, diarrhea, central nervous system depression, and pulmonary edema.
Bufencarb is highly toxic to fish and zooplankton.
Reed canary grass (Phalaris arundinacea) is a tall, perennial grass that commonly forms extensive single-species stands along the margins of lakes and streams and in wet open areas, with a wide distribution in Europe, Asia, northern Africa and North America.
HIV p24 antigen appears earlier in acute HIV infections than the corresponding antibody.
Levamisole (marketed as the hydrochloride salt under the trade name Ergamisol) is an antibiotic belonging to a class of synthetic imidazothiazole derivatives.
The B lymphocytes that are CD27+IgD+IgM+, also known as non-switched memory B cells, are lymphocytes whose function and origin in normal patients is unresolved.
They are described as non-switched because they are IgD+IgM+ and as memory cells because they are CD27+.
This subset of B cells has been found to be reduced in patients with systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE).
Increased levels of autoantibodies associated with SLE including ANA, anti-dsDNA and anti-ENA Ab correlate with a decreased level of CD27+IgD+IgM+ B lymphocytes.
Studies have also shown that CD27+IgD+IgM+ B lymphocytes exhibit increased auto-reactivity and activation functionality.
The level of CD27+IgD+IgM+ B lymphocytes remains reduced in patients with SLE even when they are in remission.
In enzymology, a bisphosphoglycerate phosphatase is an enzyme.
This enzyme belongs to the family of hydrolases, specifically those acting on phosphoric monoester bonds.
The systematic name of this enzyme class is 2,3-bisphospho-D-glycerate 2-phosphohydrolase.
Other names in common use include 2,3-diphosphoglycerate phosphatase, diphosphoglycerate phosphatase, 2,3-diphosphoglyceric acid phosphatase, 2,3-bisphosphoglycerate phosphatase, and glycerate-2,3-diphosphate phosphatase.
This enzyme participates in glycolysis/gluconeogenesis.
Ethyl acetate (systematically, ethyl ethanoate, commonly abbreviated EtOAc or EA) is the organic compound with the formula CH3COOCH2CH3.
This colorless liquid has a characteristic sweet smell (similar to pear drops) like certain glues or nail polish removers, in which it is used.
Ethyl acetate is the ester of ethanol and acetic acid; it is manufactured on a large scale for use as a solvent.
In 1985, about 400,000 tons were produced yearly in Japan, North America, and Europe combined.
In 2004, an estimated 1.3M tons were produced worldwide.
Found on B-cells, activated T-cells and Monocytes.
Associated with B-cell leukemias/lymphomas, most AML (except M3), Reed-Sternberg cells and Peripheral T-cell lymphoma
Results are reported as a ratio of the number of bcr/abl transcripts in the patient sample to the G6PDH transcripts in control specimens.
Chronic Myelogenous Leukemia (CML) is a proliferation of stem cells which possess a translocation between chromosomes 9 and 22.
The t(9;22) translocation is also occasionally found in acute lymphocytic leukemia(ALL) and acute myelogenous leukemia(AML) during CML blast crisis.
Successive testing of transcripts may be performed to monitor disease progression.
Frequency of testing varies among patients, but current recommendations include BCR/ABL testing at 3 month intervals.
Information from ARUP Laboratories 2007 03 22.
Sialidase 1 (lysosomal sialidase), also known as NEU1 is a mammalian lysosomal neuraminidase enzyme which in humans is encoded by the NEU1 gene.
Deficiencies in the human enzyme NEU1 leads to sialidosis, a rare lysosomal storage disease.
The FGFR1 gene (fibroblast growth factor receptor 1) is located on chromosome 8p11.23-p11.22.
The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the fibroblast growth factor receptor (FGFR) family, where amino acid sequence is highly conserved between members and throughout evolution.
FGFR family members differ from one another in their ligand affinities and tissue distribution.
A full-length representative protein consists of an extracellular region, composed of three immunoglobulin-like domains, a single hydrophobic membrane-spanning segment and a cytoplasmic tyrosine kinase domain.
The extracellular portion of the protein interacts with fibroblast growth factors, setting in motion a cascade of downstream signals, ultimately influencing mitogenesis and differentiation.
This particular family member binds both acidic and basic fibroblast growth factors and is involved in limb induction.
Mutations in this gene have been associated with Pfeiffer syndrome, Jackson-Weiss syndrome, Antley-Bixler syndrome, osteoglophonic dysplasia, and autosomal dominant Kallmann syndrome 2.
Chromosomal aberrations involving this gene are associated with stem cell myeloproliferative disorder and stem cell leukemia lymphoma syndrome.
Alternatively spliced variants which encode different protein isoforms have been described; however, not all variants have been fully characterized.
A blanket 'no changes' certification covers all listed drug products for which listing information has previously been submitted electronically and no listing information has changed since the previous update.
A direct-acting vasodilator that is used as an antihypertensive agent.
Klebsiella granulomatis is Gram-negative, rod shaped bacteria of the genus Klebsiella known to cause the sexually transmitted disease Donovanosis.
It used to be called Calymmatobacterium granulomatis.
The SGCG gene (sarcoglycan, gamma (35kDa dystrophin-associated glycoprotein)) is located on chromosome 13q12.
This gene encodes gamma-sarcoglycan, one of several sarcolemmal transmembrane glycoproteins that interact with dystrophin.
The dystrophin-glycoprotein complex (DGC) spans the sarcolemma and is comprised of dystrophin, syntrophin, alpha- and beta-dystroglycans and sarcoglycans.
The DGC provides a structural link between the subsarcolemmal cytoskeleton and the extracellular matrix of muscle cells.
Defects in the encoded protein can lead to early onset autosomal recessive muscular dystrophy, in particular limb-girdle muscular dystrophy, type 2C (LGMD2C).
Found in large amounts in the plasma and urine of patients with malignant melanoma.
It is therefore used in the diagnosis of melanoma and for the detection of postoperative metastases.
Cysteinyldopa is believed to be formed by the rapid enzymatic hydrolysis of 5-S-glutathionedopa found in melanin-producing cells.
Amiodarone belongs to a class of drugs called Vaughan-Williams Class III antiarrhythmic agent.
It is used in the treatment of a wide range of cardiac tachyarhthmias, including both ventricular and supraventricular (atrial) arrhythmias.
Amorphous sediment turns urine turbid due the formation of crystal granules with the appearance of sand.
Amorphous can be found in two forms: amorphous urate (found in acidic urine) and amorphous phosphate (found in alkaline or neutral urines).
These are of minimal if any clinical significance.
The Hy antigen is one of eight members of the Dombrock blood group system.
The Hy antigen is only commonly expressed in people with African ancestry and never seen in caucasians.
Because the supply for antisera to Dombrock antigens is very limited and have weak reactions with Dombrock antigens, compatibility testing is best done by single nucleotide polymorphism methods.
The two antibodies anti-Doa and anti-Dob have caused acute and delayed hemolytic transfusion reactions.
There is little clinical information about the other Dombrock antibodies other than that none have caused hemolytic disease of the newborn.
3-Hydroxydecenoylcarnitine is a secondary marker for Long-chain L-3-Hydroxy dehydrogenase deficiency, Medium-chain ketoacyl-CoA thiolase deficiency, and Trifunctional protein deficiency.
D. pteronyssinus and D. farinae are the two most important house dust mites and belong to the Pyroglyphidae family.
D. pteronyssinus has worldwide distribution and prefers more humid climates.
It is more abundant in Europe than in America.
The most important allergenic proteins in D. pteronyssinus are Der p 1 and Der p 2. 80% of mite-sensitive patients display IgE antibodies to Der p 1 and Der p 2.
Other mites in the Pyroglyphidae family share allergenic determinants with Dermatophagoides mites and are highly cross-reactive.
House dust mites may cause the following symptoms in allergic patients: perennial-type asthma, rhinitis, and conjunctivitis, often with nocturnal or early morning episodes.
D. pteronyssinus can also act as a trigger factor for atopic dermatitis in sensitive patients.
Morus rubra, commonly known as the Red Mulberry, is a species of mulberry native to eastern North America, from northernmost Ontario and Vermont south to southern Florida and west to southeast South Dakota and central Texas.
Fluvoxamine is a selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor (SSRI) that is used to treat depression, anxiety, and obsessive-compulsive disorder.
It increases the level of serotonin in the synaptic cleft and decreases turnover by blocking the presynaptic serotonin reuptake pump.
Estradiol, derived from the ovary, testis, and placenta, may be the most biologically active estrogen.
It is measured in the serum to evaluate hypogonadotropic and hypoestrogenic causes of menstrual abnormalities, sexual immaturity in females, estrogen-producing tumors, and feminization in males.
Estrogens are increased in liver cirrhosis and depressed in Turner's syndrome.
Ingestion of estrogens, such as oral contraceptives, increases the serum levels.
T-cell receptors (TCR) are composed of two polypeptide chains.
The majority of TCRs have an alpha and a beta chain, but some have a gamma and delta chain.
Most T cells that express TCR alpha beta are either CD4+ or CD8+.
However, double-negative T cells, which are both CD4- and CD8-, also express TCR alpha beta.
Double-negative T cells are associated with and may play a role in the pathogenesis of certain autoimmune and inflammatory conditions, including systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) and autoimmune lymphoproliferative syndrome.
The HOXB13 gene (homeobox B13) is located on chromosome 17q21.2.
This gene encodes a transcription factor that belongs to the homeobox gene family.
Genes of this family are highly conserved among vertebrates and essential for vertebrate embryonic development.
This gene has been implicated to play a role in fetal skin development and cutaneous regeneration.
In mice, a similar gene was shown to exhibit temporal and spatial colinearity in the main body axis of the embryo, but was not expressed in the secondary axes, which suggests functions in body patterning along the axis.
This gene and other HOXB genes form a gene cluster at chromosome the 17q21-22 region.
A species of parasitic nematode causing Malayan filariasis and having a distribution centering roughly on the Malay peninsula.
The life cycle of B. malayi is similar to that of WUCHERERIA BANCROFTI, except that in most areas the principal mosquito vectors belong to the genus Mansonia.
Bromelain is a proteolytic enzyme (an enzyme that digests proteins) found in fresh pineapple.
It is often used to treat muscle injuries and as a digestive aid.
The end result of a diagnostic process that identifies a disease.
A histamine H1 antagonist used in allergic reactions, hay fever, rhinitis, urticaria, and asthma.
It has also been used in veterinary applications.
One of the most widely used of the classical antihistaminics, it generally causes less drowsiness and sedation than PROMETHAZINE.
A 6-kDa polypeptide growth factor initially discovered in mouse submaxillary glands.
Human epidermal growth factor was originally isolated from urine based on its ability to inhibit gastric secretion and called urogastrone.
EPIDERMAL GROWTH FACTOR exerts a wide variety of biological effects including the promotion of proliferation and differentiation of mesenchymal and epithelial cells.
Epizootic Hemorrhagic Disease virus (EHDV) causes an arthropod-bourne illness primarily of white-tailed deer, mule deer and pronghorn antelope (although other species can be affected).
It belongs to the genus Orbivirus, family Reoviridae with seven serotypes currently recognized.
EHDV is transmitted by Cullicoides midges (tiny biting flies), and causes anorexia, weakness, fever, and edema.
It can be fatal within 8-36 hours in naive animals.
Although it primarily circulates in the southern United States, the periodic movement of infected vector insects to the northern United States in recent years has resulted in severe outbreaks in northern states (such as NY in 2011).
EHDV virus has also been reported in South America, Asia, Africa, Australia, and the Caribbean.
The EHD virus is sometimes confused with the related Bluetongue virus and crossreacts with it on many blood tests.
The salts and esters of salicylic acid are known as salicylates.
Salicylic acid is known for its ability to ease aches and pains and reduce fevers.
It produces its anti-inflammatory effects via suppressing the activity of cyclooxygenase (COX), an enzyme which is responsible for the production of pro-inflammatory mediators such as the prostaglandins.
In addition to anti-inflammatory effects, it is probably best known for its use in anti-acne treatments.
As with other beta hydroxy acids, salicylic acid is a key ingredient in many skin-care products for the treatment of acne as well as Seborrhoeic dermatitis, psoriasis, calluses, corns, keratosis pilaris, and warts.
The minor fragment formed when C5 convertase cleaves C5 into C5a and COMPLEMENT C5B. C5a is a 74-amino-acid glycopeptide with a carboxy-terminal ARGININE that is crucial for its spasmogenic activity.
Of all the complement-derived anaphylatoxins, C5a is the most potent in mediating immediate hypersensitivity (HYPERSENSITIVITY, IMMEDIATE), smooth MUSCLE CONTRACTION; HISTAMINE RELEASE; and migration of LEUKOCYTES to site of INFLAMMATION.
The interleukin-2 receptor (IL-2R) is a heterotrimeric protein expressed on the surface of certain immune cells, such as lymphocytes, that binds and responds to a cytokine called interleukin 2.
Three protein chains (α, β and γ) are non-covalently associated to form the IL-2R.
The α and β chains are involved in binding IL-2, while signal transduction following cytokine interaction is carried out by the γ-chain, along with the β subunit.
The β and γ chains of the IL-2R are members of the type I cytokine receptor family.
Vascular endothelial growth factor D (VEGF-D) is a member of the platelet-derived growth factor/vascular endothelial growth factor (PDGF/VEGF) family and active in angiogenesis, lymphangiogenesis, and endothelial cell growth.
Serum VEGF-D levels are elevated in patients with lymphangioleiomyomatosis (LAM), a rare multisystem disorder that almost exclusively affects women and characterized by cystic lung destruction, tumors of the kidney (angiomyolipomas), and involvement of the axial lymphatics (lymphangioleiomyomas).
Quantification of VEGF-D can be used to distinguish LAM from other cystic lung diseases.
The Parechovirus belongs to the family Picornaviridae and is a small, nonenveloped RNA virus with icosahedral capsids.
There are two species of Parechovirus including Parechovirus A (HPeV), previously named Human parechovirus, and Parechovirus B, previously named Ljungan virus.
HPeV is made up of nineteen types designated as HPeV-1 to HPeV-19.
Human infection by HPeV occurs worldwide and is often asymptomatic.
Transmission of HPeV is by the fecal-oral route, respiratory secretions and fomites.
When symptoms occur, they usually consist of mild gastroenteritis and respiratory symptoms.
More serious disease has been attributed to HPeV-3, which can cause neonatal sepsis and aseptic meningitis in children.
In 9 out of 10 neonates infected with HPeV-3, there is white matter damage which can lead to cerebral palsy, epilepsy and learning disabilities.
There is no FDA approved anti-viral treatment for HPeV available, though there are some therapies in development that target viral capsid proteins, proteases and polymerase.
The Lupin is a member of the Legume family and the genus Lupinus, which includes 450 species.
The edible seeds (from cultivated varieties of the plant) are employed as a protein-rich vegetable or savoury dish in all of the ways that cooked beans are used.
Lupin flour may commonly induce symptoms of food allergy, allergic rhinitis and asthma in sensitised individuals after ingestion of the food or inhalation of the flour.
Lupin flour in food has also been reported to produce urticaria and anaphylaxis.
Case reports of individuals experiencing oral allergy syndrome to Lupin have been made.
Contact urticaria elicited by Lupin has been reported.
Pendimethalin is a preemergent herbicide used to prevent crabgrass from germinating.
It inhibits cell division and cell elongation.
It must be "watered in" so that the chemical reaches the seeds deep in the soil.
Protein Z is a member of the coagulation cascade, the group of blood proteins that leads to the formation of blood clots.
It is vitamin K-dependent, and its functionality is therefore impaired in warfarin therapy.
It is a glycoprotein.
Inhibitor of Kappa Light Polypeptide Gene Enhancer in B Cells Gamma Kinase (IKBKG), also known as NF-Kappa-B Essential Modulator (NEMO), is a protein that is a subunit of the IκB kinase that activates NF-κB, known as Inhibitor of kappa B Kinase (IKK).
The gene for IKBKG is located on chromosome Xq28.
Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
Mutations in the IKBKG gene results in incontinentia pigmenti, hypohidrotic ectodermal dysplasia, and several other types of immunodeficiencies.
Incontinentia Pigmenti (IP) is an X-linked dominant disease caused by a mutation in the IKBKG gene.
Since IKBKG helps activate NF-κB, which protects cells against TNF-alpha induced apoptosis, a lack of IKBKG (and hence a lack of active NF-κB) makes cells more prone to apoptosis.
Albumin is the protein of greatest concentration found in plasma consisting of approximately 55-60% of the serum protein.
Albumin has several functions; it provides the majority of the intravascular oncotic pressure and helps with the regulation of fluid concentrations in tissues.
It has a major role in binding and transport of endogenous substances and medications.
Albumin has antioxidant activity and may assist in wound healing, has a heparin-like anticoagulant effect, and acts as a buffer for acid-base homoestasis.
Ischemia-modified albumin (IMA), where the metal binding capacity of albumin has deceased because of exposure to ischemic events, is a bio-marker of myocardial ischemia.
Changes in IMA levels have shown to appear during coronary angioplasty-induced ischemia.
IMA is an early test that can be combined with electrocardiographic (ECG) findings and cardiac troponin testing for the early exclusion of acute coronary syndrome.
How IMA forms and the precise entity measured are not fully known.
Ureaplasma urealyticum is a species of gram-negative bacteria found in the human genitourinary tract, oropharynx, and anal canal.
It may also be isolated from the urine of sexually active patients.
Sixty percent or more of all women who carry U. urealyticum in their genital tract are without symptoms.
U. urealyticum has been implicated in some cases of non-gonococcal urethritis.
CD42, platelet Glycoprotein Ib/V/IX complex(GPIb/V/IX).
Expressed on platelets and is a late, specific marker of megakaryocyte differentiation.
The Glycoprotein Ib/V/IX complex is essential for normal haemostasis; deficiency results in Bernard-Soulier Syndrome, a syndrome of thrombocytopenia and giant platelets.
Savinase is an enzyme produced by Bacillus amyloliquefaciens.
An occupational allergen, which may frequently induce hayfever, asthma and conjunctivitis in sensitised individuals.
Androsterone (ADT) is a steroid hormone with weak androgenic activity.
It is made in the liver from the metabolism of testosterone.
Androsterone may also act as a pheromone.
Mefenamic acid is used to relieve mild to moderate pain, including menstrual pain (pain that happens before or during a menstrual period).
Mefenamic acid is in a class of medications called NSAIDs.
It works by stopping the body's production of a substance that causes pain, fever, and inflammation.
Total vitamin D - includes D2, D3 and 25-OH
One of the histamine H1 antagonists with little sedative action.
It is used in treatment of hay fever, rhinitis, allergic dermatoses, and pruritus.
Hemoglobin Beta locus (HBB) gene mutation analysis for carrier status determination and diagnosis in hemoglobin S and C disease.
Iohexol is a non-ionic agent that is used as a marker for measuring glomerular filtration rate (GFR).
Benefits of iohexal include its safety, stability, ease of use, relatively low cost, and low inter-lab measurement variation.
Pseudoephedrine (commonly abbreviated as PSE) is a sympathomimetic amine commonly used as a decongestant.
The salts pseudoephedrine hydrochloride and pseudoephedrine sulfate are found in many over-the-counter preparations either as single-ingredient preparations, or more commonly in combination with antihistamines, paracetamol andor ibuprofen.
Consumers often refer to it by a product which contains pseudoephedrine, such as Sudafed, the trademark for a common brand of pseudoephedrine hydrochloride in North America.
Unlike antihistamines, which modify the systemic histamine -mediated allergic response, pseudoephedrine only relieves nasal congestion commonly associated with colds or allergies.
The advantage of oral pseudoephedrine over topical nasal preparations, such as oxymetazoline, is that it does not cause rebound congestion (rhinitis medicamentosa); however, it is more likely to cause adverse effects including hypertension.
HPV type 16 and 18 are the most common carcinogenic HPV types.
HPV type 16 is detected in about 50% of invasive cervical cancers worldwide and is associated with a higher risk of a severe cervical intraepithelial neoplasia (CIN 3).
HPV type 16 is one of the greatest risks for HPV persistence along with increasing age, smoking, immunosuppression, inflammation, hormones, and genetic factors.
HPV type 18 is detected in 10% to 20% of invasive cervical cancers and more commonly found in adenocarcinomas compared to squamous-cell cervical carcinomas.
Pentazocine is a synthetically-prepared narcotic drug used to treat mild to moderate pain.
Pentazocine is sold under several brand names, such as Talwin.
In the 1980s, recreational drug users discovered that combining pentazocine with the antihistamine tripellenamine (most commonly dispensed under the brand name Pyribenzamine) produced a euphoric sensation much like that brought on by heroin, and users who were already addicted to the latter often used this combination when heroin was unavailable to them.
Since tripellenamine tablets are typically blue in color, the pentazocinetripellenamine combination acquired the slang name Ts and blues.
After health-care professionals and drug-enforcement officials became aware of this scenario, the narcotic-antagonist naloxone was added to preparations containing pentazocine, and the reported incidence of its abuse has declined precipitously since.
A broad-spectrum semisynthetic antibiotic related to TETRACYCLINE but excreted more slowly and maintaining effective blood levels for a more extended period.
Direct or indirect contact with animal allergens frequently causes sensitisation.
Animal allergens are major components of the dust of Reindeer leather workshops.
The total fluoroscopy dose is the total amount of fluoroscopic exposure between the start and end of the procedure measured in milligrays, where one gray is the absorption of one joule of radiation energy by one kilogram of matter.
Azithromycin is an azalide, a subclass of macrolide antibiotics.
Azithromycin (brand names Zithromax ® in Italy; Zmax ®; Sumamed ®; Aztrin ®) is one of the world's best-selling antibiotics, and is derived from erythromycin ; however, it differs chemically from erythromycin in that a methyl -substituted nitrogen atom is incorporated into the lactone ring, thus making the lactone ring 15-membered.
Azithromycin is used to treat certain bacterial infections, most often bacteria causing middle ear infections, tonsillitis, throat infections, laryngitis, bronchitis, pneumonia and sinusitis.
It is also effective against certain sexually transmitted infectious diseases, such as non-gonococcal urethritis and cervicitis.
Recent studies have also shown it to be effective against late-onset asthma, but these findings are controversial and not widely accepted as of yet.
Staphylococci, members of the family Micrococcaceae, are Gram-positive cocci that grow in irregular grape-like clusters.
Traditionally, Staphylococci are divided into two groups: coagulase-positive and coagulase-negative Staphylococci (CoNS).
The coagulase-positive group includes the well-known pathogen S. aureus, whereas the coagulase-negative group includes a number of species that are known commensals on skin.
It is clear that even the CoNS are true pathogens, especially in patients with indwelling devices, and given their prevalence, are common causes of bacteremia.
S. aureus is known for causing a number of superficial skin infections (boils, furuncles, impetigo, etc), but it can also cause more serious infections, especially in immunosuppressed patients including pneumonia, deep abscesses, osteomyelitis, endocarditis, and meningitis.
Multiple antibiotic resistance is increasingly common in both S. aureus and CoNS, with the emergence of methicillin-resistant S. aureus (MRSA) able to reach epidemic levels.
A bridged-ring tetracyclic antidepressant that is both mechanistically and functionally similar to the tricyclic antidepressants, including side effects associated with its use.
Although adenovirus infections are rarely fatal, about 50 percent of infants and young children have prolonged intermittent disease and fatal adenovirus infections can occur in infants and immunocompromised adults.
Most cases are diagnosed on clinical grounds alone.
Viral culture can be used in selected clinical settings.
Serologic testing usually relies upon the demonstration of antibodies to group-specific antigens.
Individual serotype specificity is seldom required.
A third-generation cephalosporin antibiotic that is stable to hydrolysis by beta-lactamases.
The BRAF gene (B-Raf proto-oncogene, serine/threonine kinase) Val600Glu mutation is the most common BRAF mutation detected in human cancer and causes a conformational change in the BRAF protein's G-loop activation segment that makes it constitutively active and resistant to negative feedback signals.
The identification of this mutation and its effects have led to the creation of targeted therapeutics that inhibit BRAF activity and have been associated with short-term improvement, but long-term remission usually does not occur due to acquired resistance to BRAF inhibitors.
However, the combination of BRAF inhibitors with other medications, such as mitogen-activated protein kinase pathway inhibitors, may improve outcomes.
BRAF mutations have been associated with a range of cancers, including malignant melanoma, colorectal cancer (CRC), non-small-cell lung cancer (NSCLC), thyroid cancer, hairy cell leukemia (HCL), and multiple myeloma.
A group of inherited disorders characterized by structural alterations within the hemoglobin molecule.
A flavoprotein containing oxidoreductase that catalyzes the dehdyrogenation of SUCCINATE to FUMARATE.
In most eukaryotic organisms this enzyme is a component of mitochondrial electron transport complex II.
Ketamine is a general dissociative anaesthetic for human and veterinary use.
Its hydrochloride salt is sold as Ketanest ®, Ketaset ®, and Ketalar ®.
Pharmacologically it is very similar to other dissociative anesthetics such as tiletamine and phencyclidine (PCP).
As with many other pharmaceuticals, ketamine is used extramedically as a recreational drug.
Ketamine is a chiral compound, with two distinct enantiomers.
Most pharmaceutical ketamine preparations are racemic, however reportedly some brands have (mostly undocumented) differences in enantiomeric proportions.
Barbiturates were first developed in 1864 by Adolf von Baeyer and were widely distributed by the Farbwerke Fr Bayer and Co in 1904.
Barbiturates offered new treatment to patients with psychiatric and neurological disorders profoundly improving their prognoses.
Barbiturates were also used to treat sleep disorders and were the first drugs to effectively treat epileptic seizures.
Due to safety concerns related to drug dependence and overdose and new safer psychoactive medications barbiturate use sharply declined in the 1950s.
Butalbital, in conjunction with aspirin, acetaminophen and/or caffeine, is used to treat migraine and tension-type headaches.
The use of butalbital can lead to intoxication, hangover, tolerance, dependence and toxicity.
Patients on high doses of butalbital may experience withdrawal upon discontinuing the drug.
Pseudallescheria boydii is a species of fungus classified under Ascomycota.
It is associated with some forms of mycetoma and maduromycosis.
The asexual form of this organism is named Scedosporium apiospermum.
The angle formed by the Palatal plane (ANS-PNS) and the mandibular plane, using Menton (Gonion-Menton)
Mycobacterium tuberculosis complex immunogenic protein MPB64 is a secreted protein that is specific for the M. tuberculosis complex.
It is encoded by the MPB64 gene, elicits delayed-type hypersensitivity reactions in animal models, and has been associated with lymphoproliferative responses in patients with tuberculosis.
MPB64 is useful for differentiating M. tuberculosis from mycobacteria other than M. tuberculosis (known as "MOTT").
rAsp f 4 and rAsp f 6 can be considered specific markers for ABPA, and in particular, for early diagnosis of the disease; a clear distinction between allergic sensitisation to A. fumigatus and ABPA is essential for therapy to prevent deterioration of pulmonary function in subjects with ABPA.
3,4-Dihydroxybutyric acid is a normal human urinary metabolite that is excreted in increased concentration in patients with succinic semialdehyde dehydrogenase (SSADH) deficiency.
Normal adults excrete 0.37 +/- 0.15 (SD) mmoles of 3,4-dihydroxybutyrate per 24 hr.
The compound is also detectable in blood.
The renal clearance of this compound is roughly equal that of creatinine.
Paraneoplastic neurological syndrome (PNS) is an autoimmune disorder that is manifested by progressive central, peripheral and/or autonomic nervous system symptoms.
The neurological symptoms include encephalitis, autonomic failure, peripheral neuropathy, cerebellar ataxia, visual complaints and more.
The antibodies that attack the neural tissue develop in response to tumor cells.
The neoplasm may or may not be detectable using conventional imaging modalities.
Since PNS can be associated with multiple antibodies testing usually includes a panel of PNS antibodies.
In addition, the different PNS antibodies are associated with certain cancers so the antibody pattern can assist in identifying the specific tumor if it was previously undiagnosed.
Of patients positive for the zinc finger protein of the cerebellum 4 (Zic4) antibodies, ninety-two percent were diagnosed with small cell lung cancer.
Zic4 antibodies often occur concurrently with Hu and CRMP5 antibodies.
The BRCA1 gene (breast cancer 1, early onset) is located on chromosome 17 at position q21, and the BRCA2 gene (breast cancer 2, early onset) is located on chromosome 13 at position q12.3.
Inherited mutations in BRCA1 and BRCA2 confer increased lifetime risk of developing breast or ovarian cancer.
Mutations in the BRCA1 gene are responsible for approximately 40% of inherited breast cancers and more than 80% of inherited breast and ovarian cancers.
Both BRCA1 and BRCA2 are involved in maintenance of genome stability, specifically the homologous recombination pathway for double-strand DNA repair.
Angioplasty is the mechanical alteration of a narrowed or totally obstructed vascular lumen, generally caused by atheroma (the lesion of atherosclerosis).
The term derives from the roots Angio or vessel and plasticos fit for molding.
The term has come to include all manner of vascular interventions typically performed in a minimally invasive or percutaneous method.
See also Sheldoectomy Most commonly, the Seldinger technique is used to cannulate a blood vessel for access.
A guiding catheter is introduced into the arterial (or venous) system and advanced through the system to the location of an obstruction.
This in turn is followed by introduction of a guidewire which is advanced though the guide catheter, through the obstruction and extended into the blood vessel lumen beyond the obstruction.
Over the guidewire, a balloon catheter is advanced through both the guide catheter and the obstruction.
Direct or indirect contact with animal allergens frequently causes sensitisation.
Toluene is an aromatic hydrocarbon, occurring naturally in crude oil and in the tolu tree.
It is produced during the process of making gasoline and other fuels from crude oil, in making coal from coal,and as a by-product in the manufacture of styrene.
It is a solvent in paints, lacquers, thinners, glues, correction fluid and nail polish remover, and is used in the printing and leather tanning process.
(Drug class: Volatile solvent, CNS depressant).
There is no approved medical use of toluene.
It is frequently abused for its intoxicating effects.
Asparagine is a hydrophilic amino acid with uncharged polar groups that represents the storage form of ammonia in tissues.
Found in asparagus, asparagine is closely related to aspartic acid and is required for protein synthesis and peptide hormone production.
Low levels may indicate magnesium deficiency.
Information from Metametrix Clinical Laboratory.
Ficus benjamina, commonly known as the Weeping Fig or Benjamin's Fig and often sold in stores as just a "Ficus", is a species of fig tree, native to south and southeast Asia and Australia.
Alanine transaminase or ALT is an enzyme also called serum glutamic pyruvic transaminase (SGPT) or alanine aminotransferase (ALAT).
It is found in serum and in various bodily tissues, but is most commonly associated with the liver.
It catalyzes the two parts of the alanine cycle.
It is commonly measured clinically as a part of a diagnostic evaluation of liver health.
Significantly elevated levels of ALT often suggest the existence of other medical problems such as viral hepatitis, diabetes, congestive heart failure, bile duct problems, infectious mononucleosis, or myopathy.
However, elevated levels of ALT do not automatically mean that medical problems exist.
Fluctuation of ALT levels is normal over the course of the day, and ALT levels can also increase in response to strenuous physical exercise.
Pyruvate dehydrogenase (E1) is the first component enzyme of pyruvate dehydrogenase complex (PDC).
The pyruvate dehydrogenase complex contributes to transforming pyruvate into acetyl-CoA by a process called pyruvate decarboxylation.
Acetyl-CoA may then be used in the citric acid cycle to carry out cellular respiration, so pyruvate dehydrogenase contributes to linking the glycolysis metabolic pathway to the citric acid cycle and releasing energy via NADH..
Pyruvate dehydrogenase is an autoantigen recognized in primary biliary cirrhosis, a form of acute liver failure.
These antibodies appear to recognize oxidized protein that has resulted from inflammatory immune responses.
Some of these inflammatory responses are explained by gluten sensitivity.
Pyruvate dehydrogenase (PDH) deficiency is a congenital degenerative metabolic disease resulting from a mutation of the pyruvate dehydrogenase complex (PDC) located on the X chromosome.
Although defects have been identified in all 3 enzymes of the complex, the E1-α subunit is predominantly the culprit.
Malfunction of the citric acid cycle due to PDH deficiency deprives the body of energy and leads to an abnormal buildup of lactate.
PDH deficiency is a common cause of lactic acidosis in newborns and often presents with severe lethargy, poor feeding, tachypnea, and cases of death have occurred.
A highly poisonous compound used widely in the manufacture of plastics, adhesives and synthetic rubber.
Broad casts are small mucoprotein tube-shaped structures that are much wider than ordinary casts and indicate localized tubule damage.
As with any cast, broad casts are due to stasis in the distal collecting tubules, but broad casts are formed in the larger tubules.
They vary, are heterogeneous, and sometimes are referred to as "renal failure casts".
This is incorrect, however, because the kidney could recover or only part of the kidney could be involved.
(Ravel R. Clinical Laboratory Medicine: Clinical Application of Laboratory Data.
Elsevier Health Sciences; 1995:156.)
The major metabolite of amiodarone is desethylamiodarone (DEA), which also has antiarrhythmic properties
Dander is the material shed by the Dog into the environment through hair and "dandruff".
Dander is the "end product" and by far the most common source of Dog allergens and contains the highest proportion of dog specific allergens.
It has naturally figured very prominently in clinical research, but all three allergen sources are important for an understanding of Dog allergy.
Dog dander clearly represents an important source of inhalant allergens, and many studies report that Dog may frequently induce symptoms in sensitised individual.
Symptoms include asthma, allergic rhinitis and allergic conjunctivitis.
Diagnoses inborn errors of metabolic fatty acid oxidation (FAO)
Genus consisting of Two serogroups (complexes)
These are the LCMV-LASV complex, or Old World Arenaviruses, and the TACV complex, or New World Arenaviruses.
Ethyl glucuronide is a natural human metabolite of Ethanol generated in the liver by UDP glucuonyltransferase.
Glucuronidation is used to assist in the excretion of toxic substances, drugs or other substances that cannot be used as an energy source.
Glucuronic acid is attached via a glycosidic bond to the substance, and the resulting glucuronide, which has a much higher water solubility than the original substance, is eventually excreted by the kidneys.
Aspergillus amstelodami is a species of saprophytic mold frequently encountered in tropical and subtropical regions.
It is found soils and dried or concentrated food products.
This fungus shold be considered allergenic, but does not cause toxic or invasive diseases.
Molecular cloning of Bla g 1 has demonstrated a high homology with the major American cockroach allergen Per a 1, as well as with a mosquito protein involved in digestion (ANG12 precursor).
High levels of Bla g 1 were found in Cockroach hindgut and proventriculus.
Bla g 1 protein has also been reported to be most prevalent in the midgut.
Although Bla g 1 is produced by both sexes and all life stages of the German cockroach, adult females produce and excrete significantly more Bla g 1 in their faeces than males or nymphs, even proportionally to body mass or mass of voided faeces.
The concentration of Bla g 1 in faeces of adult females is 6- to 7- and 30-fold higher than in adult males and nymphs, respectively, probably because adult females process more food than do other German cockroaches
Zika virus (ZIKV) is a flavivirus transmitted primarily by the Aedes mosquito which was first identified in a sentinel monkey in the Zika forest in Uganda in 1947.
Since 2014 it has spread explosively in the Americas where it has infected hundreds of thousands of people.
About 80% of those infected are asymptomatic.
Common symptoms include fever, headache, rash, arthralgia and conjunctivitis.
Since the end of 2015, there has been an increase in ZIKV-associated cases of Guillain-Barre syndrome and a tremendous increase in cases of microcephaly in fetuses and newborns in Brazil, raising worldwide public health concern.
Recent predictions are that the mosquito species A. Albopictus, which can hibernate and survive cool temperatures, will carry ZIKV to more temperate areas of North America, Australia and Southern Europe.
It is still not clear whether ZIKV in humans increases viral titers enough to trigger a new cycle when an infected person is bitten by a naïve mosquito.
Direct human-to-human transmission has been documented to occur perinatally, sexually (primarily through semen), through breastfeeding, blood transfusion and through occupational transmission in the laboratory setting.
There are currently no specific anti-viral agents, vaccination or medical prophylaxis available.
Vitamin D is a fat-soluble vitamin that is naturally present in very few foods, added to others, and available as a dietary supplement.
It is also produced endogenously when ultraviolet rays from sunlight strike the skin and trigger vitamin D synthesis.
Vitamin D obtained from sun exposure, food, and supplements is biologically inert and must undergo two hydroxylations in the body for activation.
The first occurs in the liver and converts vitamin D to 25-hydroxyvitamin D, also known as calcidiol.
The second occurs primarily in the kidney and forms the physiologically active 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D, also known as calcitriol.
Vitamin D promotes calcium absorption in the gut and maintains adequate serum calcium and phosphate concentrations to enable normal mineralization of bone and to prevent hypocalcemic tetany.
It is also needed for bone growth and bone remodeling by osteoblasts and osteoclasts.
Without sufficient vitamin D, bones can become thin, brittle, or misshapen.
Vitamin D sufficiency prevents rickets in children and osteomalacia in adults.
Together with calcium, vitamin D also helps protect older adults from osteoporosis.
Very few foods contain vitamin D. The flesh of fatty fish (such as salmon, tuna, and mackerel) and fish liver oils are among the best sources.
Lawsonia intracellularis is a small, intracellular, gram negative rod bacteria which causes proliferative enteropathy in pigs.
Proliferative enteropathy is a thickening of the intestinal epithelium from the proliferation of enterocytes (cells of the intestinal lining).
The disease is endemic in swine and has also been reported in other species such as equine where outbreaks have been reported worldwide in foals since 2009.
The two main clinical presentations of proliferative enteropathy are porcine intestinal adenomatosis (PIA), which affects pigs that are 6-20 weeks old, and proliferative hemorrhagic enteropathy (PHE), which affects 4-12 month olds.
Severe PIA can lead to necrotizing enteritis with coagulative necrosis of the adenomatous mucosa.
A potential target when testing for Lawsonia intracellularis RNA is the 16s ribosomal RNA gene.
Fraxinus is a genus of about 65 species, which are distributed in northern temperate regions.
The hardy White ash (Fraxinus Americana), for example, is native and common in eastern North America and also thrives in Europe.
The European ash (Fraxinus excelsior) is native to most of Europe, with the exception of northern Scandinavia and the southern Mediterranean.
White ash tree (t15) needs to be differentiated from European ash tree (t25).
European ash is a common cause of asthma, allergic rhinitis and allergic conjunctivitis, in particular in Central and Northern Europe.
Colorless or yellow-brown, red-brown with square, diamond, or wedges, often found in rosettes.
Usually not clinically significant, but in large numbers can indicate gout or toxicity.
Koontz A. Clinical Significance of Formed Elements in Urine.
Mobiluncus is a genus of gram-positive, anaerobic, rod-shaped bacteria.
While this species of bacterium possesses a cell wall with structural similarity to other gram-positive cell walls, upon gram stain these bacteria may be stained either gram-negative or gram-variable.
Its organisms are found in the human vagina, particularly in association with Gardnerella vaginalis in cases of bacterial vaginosis.
Gamma globulins, or Ig's, are a class of serum proteins that can be identified by electrophoresis.
The most significant gamma globulins are antibodies.
Gamma globulin injections are sometimes given in an attempt to temporarily boost a patient's immunity.
Injections are also given to patients who have been exposed to hepatitis A or measles and to patients who lack the ability to produce gamma globulins because of an immune deficiency, such as in X-linked agammaglobulinemia.
A mental state characterized by bewilderment, emotional disturbance, lack of clear thinking, and perceptual disorientation.
Absence of E-Cadherin is associated with a worse prognosis in prostate cancer
Norcodeine is one of several metabolites of codeine which is an opiate derived from the poppy plant Papaver somniferum.
Most of codeine is metabolized in the liver and 10-15% of it is converted by N-demethylation to norcodeine by CYP3A4.
Norcodeine has about the same affinity for the mu opioid receptor as codeine which is 200 times less than that of morphine.
Norcodeine has very little opioid activity.
Actin is the major antigen to which smooth muscle antibodies react in autoimmune hepatitis.
F-Actin IgG antibodies are found in 52-85% of patients with autoimmune hepatitis (AIH) or chronic active hepatitis and in 22% of patients with primary bilary cirrhosis (PBC).
Anti-actin antibodies have been reported in 3-18% of sera from normal healthy controls.
Lymphocyte proliferation is used in the evaluation of patients with primary and secondary immunodeficiency diseases which affect T lymphocytes.
Plant mitogens, including phytohemagglutinin and pokeweed, are capable of inducing blastogenesis and stimulating lymphocyte proliferation.
The panel is used to assess T cell function in patients having immunosuppressive therapy and to evaluate patients with cellular or humoral immunodeficiency diseases, which include SCID (Severe Combined Immunodeficiency), CVID (Common Variable Immunodeficiency), and DiGeorge syndrome.
Pyridostigmine is a parasympathomimetic and a reversible cholinesterase inhibitor.
Since it is a quaternary amine, it is poorly absorbed in the gut and does not cross the blood-brain barrier, except possibly in stressful conditions.
Lorcainide is a class 1c antiarrhythmic agent.
A fungus (plural fungi) is a eukaryotic organism that digests its food externally and absorbs the nutrient molecules into its cells.
Along with bacteria, fungi are the primary decomposers of dead organic matter in most terrestrial ecosystems.
Fungi have important symbiotic relationships with many other organisms.
Over 90% of all plants engage in some kind of mycorrhizal relationship with fungi and are dependent upon this relationship for survival.
Fungi are also used extensively by humans: yeasts are responsible for fermentation of beer and bread, and mushroom farming and gathering is a large industry in many countries.
The branch of biology involving the study of fungi is known as mycology.
JWH-200 is considered a synthetic cannabinoid and a scheduled I controlled substance.
JWH stands for John W. Huffman, one of the inventors of the compound.
Alizapride (an ingredient in brandnames Litican, Plitican, Superan, and Vergentan), drug class antiemetic, is a methoxy-2-benzamide derivative used in the treatment of nausea and vomiting, including chemotherapy and postoperative nausea and vomiting.
It is structurally related to metoclopramide and other benzamides.
Ethylene oxide is a gas capable of killing microorganisms by the alkylation of the sulfur-containing proteins.
Since it is a highly inflammable gas, it is used in association with both CO2 (90%) and fluoric hydrocarbons.
In such conditions, ethylene oxide sterilizes at a temperature of 40° and a humidity of 40% within 4 hours.
It is used to sterilize various medical instruments and supplies that would not tolerate sterilization by heat.
Correlation between ETO-specific IgE and allergic symptoms during dialysis.
6-Monoacetylmorphine (6-MAM) Is an intermediate metabolite between heroin and morphine.
It is the primary molecule involved in the effects of heroin in the body.
Heroin can cause feelings of euphoria and drowsiness.
It can also lead to suicidal thoughts, liver failure, heart failure and death.
Since heroin is an illicit drug, heroin and its metabolites are routinely ordered as part of a drug screen or drug abuse panel.
Time to onset of adverse event(s) since treatment start in years, months, weeks, days, or hours.
Sialophorin (leukosialin, CD43), also known as SPN, is a human gene.
Sialophorin (leukosialin) is a major sialoglycoprotein on the surface of human T lymphocytes, monocytes, granulocytes, and some B lymphocytes, which appears to be important for immune function and may be part of a physiologic ligand-receptor complex involved in T-cell activation.
The enzyme citrate synthase (E.C. 2.3.3.1) exists in nearly all living cells and stands as a pace-making enzyme in the first step of the Citric Acid Cycle (or Krebs Cycle).
Citrate synthase is localized within eukaryotic cells in the mitochondrial matrix, but is encoded by nuclear DNA rather than mitochondrial.
It is synthesized using cytoplasmic ribosomes, then transported into the mitochondrial matrix.
Citrate synthase is commonly used as a quantitative enzyme marker for the presence of intact mitochondria.
CD3 is a marker found on all functional T cells, while CD5 is a cluster of differentiation antigen found on most T cells and a subset of IgM secreting B cells.
In normal subjects, most CD3+ T cells also express CD5.
About 76 % of T cell neoplasms express Cd5, although it is not present in cutaneous T cell lymphoma.
The absence of CD5 in T cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia is associated with poor prognosis
The risks associated with the misinterpretation of passive and immune anti-D are clear: if passive anti-D is misinterpreted as immune, anti-D prophylaxis may be omitted leaving the women unprotected from sensitisation.
If immune anti-D is misinterpreted as passive, appropriate follow-up of the antibody level during pregnancy may be curtailed putting the fetus at risk.
The CASR gene (calcium-sensing receptor) is located on chromosome 3q13.
The protein encoded by this gene is a G protein-coupled receptor that is expressed in the parathyroid hormone (PTH)-producing chief cells of the parathyroid gland, and the cells lining the kidney tubule.
It senses small changes in circulating calcium concentration and couples this information to intracellular signaling pathways that modify PTH secretion or renal cation handling, thus this protein plays an essential role in maintaining mineral ion homeostasis.
Mutations in this gene cause familial hypocalciuric hypercalcemia, familial, isolated hypoparathyroidism, and neonatal severe primary hyperparathyroidism.
The total liquid volume of gas delivered by a single gas delivery system, potentially across multiple cases.
A plasma protein which is the precursor of kallikrein.
Plasma that is deficient in prekallikrein has been found to be abnormal in thromboplastin formation, kinin generation, evolution of a permeability globulin, and plasmin formation.
The absence of prekallikrein in plasma leads to Fletcher factor deficiency, a congenital disease.
Nickel can be elevated in industrial exposures (specifically steels, some inks and batteries) and infarctions to target organs like heart, brain, or from massive skin damage.
Nickel can cause skin rash - usually from nickel in jewelry.
Chronic inhalation can also cause nasal and lung cancer.
In animal feed, the toxic dietary concentration is 10-100 times greater than normal feed concentrations.
Symptoms of nickel toxicity (observed under experimental conditions) include depressed growth, feed intake and feed efficiency, hematological changes, and possible kidney damage.(Mineral Tolerance of Animals: Second Revised Edition, 2005)
Programmed cell death-ligand 1 (PD-L1), also known as cluster of differentiation 274 (CD274) or B7 homolog 1 (B7-H1), is a protein that in humans is encoded by the CD274 gene.
PD-L1 is the major ligand for the programmed cell death-1 (PD-1) receptor, which is present on the surface of T, B and NK cells and is part of the B7-CD28 superfamily.
Binding PD-L1 and PD-L2 to the PD-1 receptor found on T-cells inhibits T cell proliferation and cytokine production.
An increase PD-L1 expression occurs in some tumors, which helps protect them against active T-cell immune surveillance by binding to PD-1 and inhibiting the T-cell response.
Positive PD-L1 immunohistochemistry in tumor cells may predict tumor response to therapy with immune checkpoint inhibitors, which are a new class of drugs that trigger an immune response against cancer cells by effectively suppressing the tumor's ability to inhibit the immune response.
Drugs in this class include pembrolizumab and nivolumab, both of which are anti-PD-1 receptor antibodies, and atezolizumab, which is an anti-PD-L1 antibody.
PD-L1 may be a prognostic, diagnostic, and therapeutic marker in a variety of neoplasms, including carcinomas of the bladder, lung, and kidney.
Phensuximide is an anticonvulsant in the succinimide class.
Major histocompatibility complex class I chain-related antigen A (MICA) proteins are like HLA class I gene products.
MICA has a role as a ligand for activation of receptor NKG2D.
Like the HLA system, MICA molecules can elicit antibody responses during pregnancy, blood product transfusion, or organ transplant rejection.
A significant percentage of exposed individuals will produce anti-MICA antibodies.
Presence or absence of MICA antibodies may assist clinicians in determining the survival of organ transplant patients.
Scorzonera hispanica, commonly known as Black salsify or Spanish salsify, is a perennial herbaceous plant native to Europe and belonging to the genus Scorzonera in the sunflower family (Asteraceae).
The subaerial parts of black salsify are cultivated as a vegetable.
Xanthurenic acid is a metabolic intermediate that accumulates and is excreted by pyridoxine (vitamin B6) deficient animals after the ingestion of tryptophan.
The adhesion protein YadA is encoded by the yadA gene located in the 70-kb virulence plasmid of Yersinia (pYV) that is common to several pathogenic Yersinia species, including Y. pestis, Y. pseudotuberculosis and Y. enterocolitica.
YadA is a 45-kDa homotrimer that is anchored to the outer membrane of bacteria and covers the entire bacterial surface giving it hydrophobic properties.
The yadA gene expression is induced at 37 °C by the temperature-dependent transcriptional activator LcrF. It is is involved in autoagglutination and binds to host cells and collagen, laminin, fibronectin, intestinal submucosa, and mucus.
Aspergillus restrictus is a species of fungus in the family Trichocomaceae.
It is xerophilic, frequently found in house dust.
Studies have suggested that it is an allergen implicated in asthma.
The gallotannins are a class of hydrolysable tannins polymers formed when gallic acid, a polyphenol monomer, esterifies and binds with the hydroxyl group of a polyol carbohydrate such as glucose.
An anti-inflammatory analgesic and antipyretic of the phenylalkynoic acid series.
It has been shown to reduce bone resorption in periodontal disease by inhibiting carbonic anhydrase.
The SGCB gene (sarcoglycan, beta (43kDa dystrophin-associated glycoprotein)) is located on chromosome 4q12.
This gene encodes a member of the sarcoglycan family.
Sarcoglycans are transmembrane components in the dystrophin-glycoprotein complex which help stabilize the muscle fiber membranes and link the muscle cytoskeleton to the extracellular matrix.
Mutations in this gene have been associated with limb-girdle muscular dystrophy.
Beryllium (Be) exposure is an industrial hazard for workers in metal extraction, rocket bases, nuclear plants, refining plants, or where coal is burned extensively.
Urine excretion is variable and does not correlate with disease.
Toxicity from beryllium exposure is latent and chronic inhalation will lead to berylliosis, a chronic allergic-type lung response and chronic lung disease.
Beryllium enters the body through the lungs and toxicity has been associated with increased incidence of pulmonary cancers.
A member of the MNS blood group system, the Dantu antigen was described in 1984.
The Dantu antigen has an apparent molecular weight of 29 kiloDaltons (kDa) and 99 amino acids.
The first 39 amino acids of the Dantu antigen are derived from glycophorin B and residues 40-99 are derived from glycophorin A. Dantu is associated with very weak s antigen, a protease resistant N antigen and either very weak or no U antigen.
There are at least three variants: MD, NE and Ph.
The Dantu phenotype occurs with a frequency of about 0.005 in American Blacks and less than 0.001 in Germans.
A bumblebee (also spelled as bumble bee) is any member of the bee genus Bombus, in the family Apidae.
There are over 250 known species, existing primarily in the Northern Hemisphere although they are common in New Zealand and Tasmania.
Found on activated T-cells
1-Pentanol, (or n-pentanol, pentan-1-ol), is an alcohol with five carbon atoms and the molecular formula C5H12O. 1-Pentanol is a colorless liquid with an unpleasant aroma.
There are 7 other structural isomers of pentanol (see amyl alcohol).
The ester formed from butanoic acid and 1-pentanol, pentyl butyrate, smells like apricot.
The ester formed from acetic acid and 1-pentanol, amyl acetate (pentyl acetate), smells like banana.
Upper lip length from Subnasale to Labius superius
A niger is a fungus of the genus Aspergillus and is one of the most common aspergillus species.
It cause black mold on some fruits and vegetables including grapes, onions, and peanuts.
Some strains of A niger may produce mycotoxins called ochratoxins.
If large amounts of A niger spores are inhaled, aspergillosis may occur, but is less likely than encounters involving other aspergillus species.
Saturated fatty acids in the diet are less likely to be absorbed compared to unsaturated fatty acids, and can combine with other compounds, such as calcium, to form fatty acid salts, also known as soaps.
3-Hydroxyoctanoylcarnitine+Malonylcarnitine is a primary marker for Malonic acidemia and Medium-chain ketoacyl-CoA thiolase deficiency.
The compounds known as novel synthetic opioids (NSOs) have been emerging as drugs of abuse, given that many share pharmacological properties with common opioid agonists, yet they are difficult to detect and control.
Since the early 2010s clandestine manufacturing of both novel fentanyl derivatives as well as other synthetic opioids has increased, with the list growing to upwards of more than 30 unique compounds.
The list includes fentanyl analogs such as acetylfentanyl, butyrfentanyl, 4-methoxybutyrylfentanyl, 4-methylphenethylacetylfentanyl, furanylfentanyl, carfentanil (and its major metabolite norcarfentanil), ocfentanil, acrylfentanyl, 3-methylfentanyl and 4-fluorobutyrylfentanyl.
Also, in the same category are non-fentanyl derived chemicals having opioid agonist activity such as AH-7921 and U47700(benzoamides) and MT-45 (a piperazine).
The pharmacologic receptor profile of some predict that they would be highly addictive and in some cases much more potent (for example, 3-Methylfentanyl is about 1000 times and carfentanil may be 10,000 times more potent than morphine).
The fact that they are often cut into heroin preparations or sold as counterfeit pain killers with users unaware of their content makes them particularly prone to overdose.
The DEA has reported that the fentanyl crisis in the United States in the late 2010s has been largely fueled by NSOs .
Oat (Avena sativa) is a species of seeds from a cereal grain plant.
It is used for food for people and as fodder for animals, especially poultry and horses.
Oat straw is used as animal bedding and sometimes as animal feed.
Since oats are unsuitable for making bread, they are often served as a porridge made from crushed or rolled oats, oatmeal, and are also baked into cookies (oatcakes) together with wheat flour.
As oat flour or oatmeal, they are also used in a variety of other baked goods and cold cereals, and as an ingredient in muesli and granola.
Oats may also be consumed raw, and cookies with raw oats are quickly becoming popular.
Oats are also occasionally used in Britain for brewing beer.
Oatmeal stout is one variety brewed using a percentage of oats for the wort.
Oats also have non-food uses.
Oat straw is used in corn dolly making, and it is the favorite filling for home made lace pillows.
Oat extract can be used to soothe certain skin conditions.
Desomorphine's homemade production as an illicit drug from codeine has attracted media attention, and has been reported particularly in Russia.
Toxocara cati (synonym Toxocara mystax, common name feline roundworm) is worldwide distributed parasite of cats and other felids and it is one of the most common nematode of cats.
Adult worms are localised in gut of the host.
In adult cats, the infection is usually asymptomatic.
However, massive infection in juvenile cats can be fatal.
Heparin-induced thrombocytopenia (HIT) is the development of thrombocytopenia (a low platelet count), due to the administration of various forms of heparin, an anticoagulant.
In HIT, the immune system forms antibodies against heparin when it is bound to a protein called platelet factor 4 (PF4).
These antibodies are usually of the IgG class, which form a complex with heparin and PF4 in the bloodstream.
The tail of the antibody then binds to the FcγIIa receptor, a protein on the surface of the platelet.
This results in platelet activation and the formation of platelet microparticles, which initiate the formation of blood clots; the platelet count falls as a result, leading to thrombocytopenia.
Z-10-Hydroxynortriptyline is an active metabolite of nortriptyline, a tricyclic antidepressant, and is measured as part of therapeutic drug level monitoring of nortriptyline.
The metabolite has been shown to cause cardiotoxicity.
Ebola virus is one cause of viral hemorrhagic fever disease and has 5 subspecies, including Ebola Zaire, which was the type identified in the West Africa outbreak in 2014.
Ebola is transmitted through direct contact with the blood or bodily fluids of an infected symptomatic person or though exposure to objects (such as needles) that have been contaminated with infected secretions.
Symptoms most often appear 8 to 10 days after exposure to the virus and include fever, headache, joint and muscle aches, weakness, diarrhea, vomiting, stomach pain, lack of appetite, and abnormal bleeding.
Ebola Zaire is a single-stranded RNA virus, and it is the viral RNA that is detected by the Ebola Zaire real-time reverse transcription (rRT) polymerase chain reaction assay.
Ovomucoid, or Gal d 1, previously known as Gal d I or Gal d III, is a major allergen of Hen's egg.
Ovomucoid is, together with Conalbumin (Ovotransferrin), the major allergenic protein in Hen's egg.
The highest concentration is found in Egg white.
Food allergen mix 31 (fx31) contains apple, cherry, plum, peach and pear IgE antibodies.
Testing for IgE antibodies may be used to help diagnose an allergic disease or the cause of an anaphylactic episode in a patient.
Tizanidine is classified as a central alpha-2 adrenergic agonist.
This drug is commonly used as a muscle relaxant as well as spasticity management.
Chromosomal translocation t(11;18)(q21;q21) is found in B-cell non Hodgkin lymphoma (NHL) and the Mucosa-Associated Lymphoid Tissue (MALT) type of marginal zone B-cell lymphoma (MZBCL).
MALT-type lymphoma most often involves the stomach, where it usually follows chronic gastritis due to Helicobacter pylori (HP) infection.
For gastric cases, the t(11;18)(q21;q21) translocation is a clonal marker for resistance to Helicobacter pylori treatment and antigen independent growth.
An antineoplastic compound which also has antimetabolite action.
The drug is used in the therapy of acute leukemia.
Proliferating Cell Nuclear Antigen, commonly known as PCNA, is a protein that acts as a processivity factor for DNA polymerase delta in eukaryotic cells.
It achieves this processivity by encircling the DNA, thus creating a topological link to the genome.
It is an example of a DNA clamp.
The CDKL5 gene (cyclin-dependent kinase-like 5) is located on chromosome Xp22.
This gene is a member of Ser/Thr protein kinase family and encodes a phosphorylated protein with protein kinase activity.
Mutations in this gene have been associated with X-linked infantile spasm syndrome (ISSX), also known as X-linked West syndrome, and Rett syndrome (RTT).
Alternate transcriptional splice variants have been characterized.
An enzyme that catalyzes the decarboxylation of UROPORPHYRINOGEN III to coproporphyrinogen III by the conversion of four acetate groups to four methyl groups.
It is the fifth enzyme in the 8-enzyme biosynthetic pathway of HEME.
Several forms of cutaneous PORPHYRIAS are results of this enzyme deficiency as in PORPHYRIA CUTANEA TARDA; and HEPATOERYTHROPOIETIC PORPHYRIA.
Carbon disulfide is a colorless volatile liquid with the formula CS2.
The compound is used frequently as a building block in organic chemistry as well as an industrial and chemical non-polar solvent.
It has an "ether-like" odor, but commercial samples are typically contaminated with foul-smelling impurities, such as carbonyl sulfide.
At high levels, carbon disulfide may be life-threatening because it affects the nervous system.
A species of PNEUMOCYSTIS infecting humans and causing PNEUMOCYSTIS PNEUMONIA.
It also occasionally causes extrapulmonary disease in immunocompromised patients.
Its former name was Pneumocystis carinii f. sp. hominis.
Doxylamine is a first generation antihistamine.
It can be used by itself as a short-term sedative and in combination with other drugs to provide night-time allergy and cold relief.
Doxylamine is also used in combination with the analgesics paracetamol (acetaminophen) and codeine as an analgesic/calmative preparation, and is prescribed in combination with vitamin B6 (pyridoxine) to prevent morning sickness in pregnant women.
Dichlorodiphenyltrichloroethane (DDT) is an organochlorine insecticide used to manage mosquito-born malaria.
DDT was heavily used during World War II to protect the troops from insect typhus and malaria vectors.
Post 1945, DDT was broadly applied to crops as an insecticide.
Sweden banned the use of DDT in 1970 and the United States followed suit in 1972.
Technical grade DDT is comprised of three isomers which are: p,p-DDT isomer, which is the most abundant and o,p'-DDT and o,o'-DDT that are present in much lower quantities.
DDT is easily absorbed in the intestinal tract, but not as easily absorbed through the skin unless it is in solution.
Symptoms of low to moderate exposure to DDT by humans include nausea, diarrhea, increased liver enzymes, irritation of the eyes, nose or throat, disturbed gait, malaise, and excitability.
Tremors and convulsions can occur in humans at increased levels of exposure.
Experimental animals exposed to DDT have experienced damage to the nervous system, liver, kidney and immune system.
In contrast, humans have shown no evidence of liver, kidney or immune system damage due to DDT exposure.
DDT is highly toxic to aquatic wildlife, especially invertebrates and fish.
The thinning of egg shells of birds exposed to DDT is thought to be due to DDE, the primary metabolite of DDT.
DDT is very slow to decompose in the soil and its estimated half-life is 2-15 years.
In water, the half-life of DDT in lakes is 56 days and in rivers is 28 days.
Copper analysis is used to diagnose toxicity and metabolism disorders, such as Wilson's disease and Menkes syndrome.
Veterinary Medicine: Copper sulphate is often added to pig feed to improve weight gain.
If the feed is not uniformily mixed, pigs may be exposed to toxic levels of copper.
The first indication of toxicity is a rise in blood copper concentration.
The primary clinical signs include jaundice, dullness, weakness, anemia, trembling and respiratory distress.
Beta glucans are cell wall constituents (polysacharrides) of medically important fungi including Candida and Aspergillus, and are used to assist in making the diagnosis of disseminated fungal infection.
They are also present in the bran of cereal grains and baker's yeast.
The STS gene (steroid sulfatase (microsomal), isozyme S) is located on chromosome Xp22.32.
The protein encoded by this gene catalyzes the conversion of sulfated steroid precursors to estrogens during pregnancy.
The encoded protein is found in the endoplasmic reticulum, where it acts as a homodimer.
Mutations in this gene are known to cause X-linked ichthyosis (XLI).
Arginine is a primary marker for argininemia and a secondary marker for Citrullinemia type II.
A trihydroxy sugar alcohol that is an intermediate in carbohydrate and lipid metabolism.
It is used as a solvent, emollient, pharmaceutical agent, and sweetening agent.
Found on NK-cells, Neutrophils, Monocytes Associated with Large granular lymphocytosis.
Absent on neutrophils in PNH
Lactobacillus is a genus of Gram-positive facultative anaerobic or microaerophilic bacteria.
They are a major part of the lactic acid bacteria group, named as such because most of its members convert lactose and other sugars to lactic acid.
They are common and usually benign.
In humans they are present in the vagina and the gastrointestinal tract, where they are symbiotic and make up a small portion of the gut flora.
Many species are prominent in decaying plant material.
The production of lactic acid makes its environment acidic, which inhibits the growth of some harmful bacteria.
Pholcodine (CLSI allergen code c261), also known as morpholinylethylmorphine, is an antitussive morphine derivative (cough suppressant) sold over the counter in many countries and also found in certain cough lozenges.
Patients have demonstrated a sharp rise in IgE antibodies towards neuromuscular blocking agents (NMBAs) when exposed to small doses of cough syrup containing pholcodine.
These patients have suffered allergic anaphylaxis during general anaesthesia and are IgE-sensitized to NMBAs.
A transferase that catalyzes formation of phosphocreatine from ATP + creatine and stores ATP energy as phosphocreatine.
Three cytoplasmic isozymes have been identified in human tissues: the MM type from skeletal muscle, the MB type from myocardial tissue and the BB type from nervous tissue and mitochondrial isoenzyme.
Macro-creatine kinase refers to creatine kinase complexed with other serum proteins.
A herb, which may result in allergy symptoms in sensitised individuals.
The Mint family consists of fragrant aromatic plants of which the culinary and medicinal uses go back many centuries.
More than 30 varieties can be obtained with different "flavours": apple, pineapple, lemon, and others.
But the 3 chief species of Mint in cultivation and general use are the following: Spearmint (Mentha viridis), Peppermint or Mint (M. piperita), and Pennyroyal (M. pulegium).
Mint may uncommonly induce symptoms of food allergy or cutaneous allergy in sensitised individuals
Sindbis Virus (SINV) is a member of the Togaviridae family, in the alphavirus subfamily.
The virus was first isolated in 1952 in Cairo, Egypt.
The virus is transmitted by mosquitoes (Culex spp.)
SINV causes sindbis fever in humans and the symptoms include arthralgia, rash and malaise.
Sindbis fever is most common in South and East Africa, Egypt, Israel, Philippines and parts of Australia.
Sindbis virus is an "arbovirus" (arthropod-borne) and is maintained in nature by transmission between vertebrate (bird) hosts and invertebrate (mosquito) vectors.
Humans are infected with Sindbis virus when bitten by an infected mosquito.
Recently SINV has been linked to Pogosta disease in Finland.
Sorafenib (brand name Nexavar) is in a class of medications called multikinase inhibitors and used to treat advanced renal cell cancer (RCC), hepatocellular cancer (HCC), and thyroid cancer.
It is also used to treat recurrent or metastatic angiosarcoma and resistant gastrointestinal stromal tumors (GIST).
Adverse effects of sorafenib include loss of appetite, skin rash, weight loss, joint pain, diarrhea, headaches and hypertension.
Hydroxylapatite, also called hydroxyapatite (HA), is a naturally occurring mineral form of calcium apatite with the formula Ca5(PO4)3(OH).
HA crystal deposition disease (HADD) is a systemic disease of unknown etiology associated with para-articular and or intra-articular deposition of HA crystals.
HADD is clinically manifested by localized pain, swelling, and tenderness about the affected joint along with variable limitation of joint motion.
When intra-articular, HA crystals can cause joint destruction.
Any joint can be involved; the shoulder is most commonly affected, resulting in "Milwaukee shoulder.
Treatment includes analgesics, local heat, needling with or without aspiration of the calcific deposits, steroid injections, and possibly surgery for relief of pain.
17-hydroxyprogesterone (17-OHP) is a steroid that is a member of the adrenal biosynthetic pathway and measured in order to diagnose congenital adrenal hyperplasia (CAH).
Classic CAH is suspected when virilisation is seen in females at birth.
The diagnosis of CAH in boys can be delayed.
CAH is characterized by decreased cortisol as a result of a mutation in the CYP21A2 gene, which encodes the enzyme 21-hydroxylase.
Increased blood concentrations of 17-OHP indicate a deficiency in 21-hydroxylase since 17-OHP is the substrate for 21-hydroxylase.
Reduced levels of 21-hydroxylase negatively affect the production of cortisol.
CAH is among the most frequent genetic disorders in humans.
The severity of the physical manifestations are related to the degree of 21-hydroxylase deficiency.
AM694 N-5-hydroxypentyl is a metabolite of AM694 (1--3-[2-iodobenzoyl indole), a potent synthetic cannabinoid that shows high affinity for cannabinoid CB1 and CB2 receptors.
Synthetic cannabinoids interact with the same brain receptors as THC (the active drug present in marijuana) and have been demonstrated to produce similar effects.
The drug is typically sprayed on botanical material and smoked, although it can be ingested in liquid or powder form.
Products containing this drug are sold under a wide variety of names including (but not limited to)
Spice, Potpourri, Smoke, K2, Zombie, Kush, and Cloud 10.
Species of chlamydia causing a variety of ocular and urogenital diseases.
A genus of coccidian parasites in the family EIMERIIDAE.
Cyclospora cayetanensis is pathogenic in humans, probably transmitted via the fecal-oral route, and causes nausea and diarrhea.
Fy3 is one of the Duffy blood group antigens.
Antibodies to this antigen are found in certain Fya-b- individuals.
A lipoprotein with pronounced electronegative surface charge found in association with platelet membrane and platelet granules.
In the sequence of blood coagulation reactions, it is required for activation of factor VIII and for the conversion of prothrombin to thrombin.
Giant platelets are abnormally large platelets 7-15 microns in size.
They are associated with inherited giant platelet disorders (IGPDs), a group of rare disorders characterized by thrombocytopenia, giant platelets, and a tendency to bleeding.
IGPDs include Bernard-Soulier syndrome (BSS), velocardiofacial syndrome (VCFS), May-Hegglin anomaly (MHA), Epstein syndrome, and Mediterranean macrothrombocytopenia.
High-dose methotrexate (MTX) is an antimetabolite drug used in treatment of cancer, and low-dose methotrexate (MTX) is used as a disease modifying antirheumatic drug (DMARD) for long-term treatment of rheumatoid arthritis (RA), psoriasis, and other autoimmune diseases.
Methotrexate is a first-line drug in RA treatment.
One challenge in the use of the drug is that about 30% of patients do not respond to treatment or experience adverse effects, such as gastrointestinal symptoms, malaise, and psychological complaints.
A species of the genus MYCOPLASMA, originally isolated infrequently from the lower genital tract of humans, and possessing uncertain pathogenicity.
The incognitus strain of M. fermentans has been identified in necrotizing lesions of multiple organs from AIDS and non-AIDS patients dying of an acute influenza-like disease.
Creatine kinase MB is the quantitation of the specific cardiac protein CKMB that is used in diagnosing myocardial infarction.
Elevated values can be often be detected within 3-6 hours following the onset of chest pain.
Testing should be performed at appropriate intervals because CKMB concentration peaks within 12-24 hours and generally returns to normal at 24-72 hours.
Abnormal CKMB concentrations are often associated with ischemia or necrotic injury to the heart.
Other conditions which may give elevated CK-MB values when the diagnosis of myocardial damage is unclear include skeletal muscle trauma, muscular dystrophy, dermatomyositis, Reyes syndrome, rhabdomyolysis, drug overdose, delirium tremens, chronic ethanol poisoning, and myopathic disorders.
Mutations in the KARS gene are associated with Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease, recessive, intermediate type, B (CMTRIB), a disorder of the peripheral nervous system, characterized by progressive weakness and atrophy of the peroneal muscles and distal muscles of the arms.
Mutations in this gene are also associated with autosomal recessive deafness-89.
Methedrone is an illicit, recreational drug of the cathinone chemical class (also called 'bath salts').
Chemically, methedrone is closely related to para-methoxymethamphetamine, methylone and mephedrone.
One study suggests a narrow 'therapeutic' window and stresses the danger in taking this drug.
Syrup (see) made from the sap of various maple tree species, especially the sugar maple.
Was popular and much traded item until cane sugar became cheaper in the late 1800s.
Used to make maple sugar, maple butter, maple cream and maple candy.
Various other uses, and can sometimes be used to replace part or all of sugar in baking.
3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaric acid (also known as meglutol, 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaric acid, β-hydroxy-β-methylglutaric acid, and dicrotalic acid) is a hypolipidemic agent.
It is also a marker for a genetic disease called hydroxymethylglutaric aciduria or 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl-coenzyme A lyase deficiency.
Mycobacterium bovis (aka Bovine TB) is a slow growing aerobic bacterium closely related to Mycobacterium tuberculosis and is a significant zoonotic disease concern especially among those who consume raw milk.
Interferon Gamma is a cytokine produced by T helper cells as part of the immune response to various stimuli.
The level of gamma interferon produced provides a measure of sensitization of the cell mediated immune system to the specific stimulus.
Ammonium persulfate appears as a white crystalline solid and is a strong oxidizing agent.
Ammonium persulfate is used as a bleaching agent and as a food preservative .
Methylenedioxyethylamphetamine (MDE) is part of the entactogen substance group which includes methylenedioxymethamphetamine also known as ecstasy.
The psychological effects associated with the use of MDE include pleasant emotions, relaxation, peace, contentment, feelings of closeness to others, significant stimulation and hallucinogen-like effects.
Autonomic effects of MDE include a rise in cortisol and prolactin, elevated blood pressure and heart rate and a slight rise in body temperature.
Some users have delayed adverse effects in the days following MDE ingestion that include depression, lethargy, tension and anxious feelings.
Long-term use of MDE can lead to long-term neurotoxicity and death.
In immunology, the CD45 antigen (CD stands for cluster of differentiation) is a protein which was originally called leukocyte common antigen.
The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the protein tyrosine phosphatase (PTP) family.
PTPs are known to be signaling molecules that regulate a variety of cellular processes including cell growth, differentiation, mitotic cycle, and oncogenic transformation.
This PTP contains an extracellular domain, a single transmembrane segment and two tandem intracytoplasmic catalytic domains, and thus belongs to receptor type PTP.
This gene is specifically expressed in hematopoietic cells.
This PTP has been shown to be an essential regulator of T- and B-cell antigen receptor signaling.
It functions through either direct interaction with components of the antigen receptor complexes, or by activating various Src family kinases required for the antigen receptor signaling.
This PTP also suppresses JAK kinases, and thus functions as a regulator of cytokine receptor signaling.
Four alternatively spliced transcripts variants of this gene, which encode distinct isoforms, have been reported.
JWH-018 (1-pentyl-3-(1-naphthoyl)indole) is a synthetic cannabinoid and a scheduled I controlled substance.
It is an analgesic chemical from the naphthoylindole family that acts as a full agonist at both the CB1 and CB2 cannabinoid receptors, with some selectivity for CB2.
It produces effects in animals similar to those of THC, a cannabinoid naturally present in cannabis, leading to its use in synthetic cannabis products.
Research has shown that the parent compound is extensively metabolized prior to excretion and, as a result, present at very low levels in urine samples.
Its metabolites are thought to be better targets for assays.
The Barmah Forest virus (BFV) is an enveloped positive sense single stranded RNA virus.
It is endemic in all states and territories of Australia.
Infection rates are highest in coastal areas where transmission of BFV to humans occurs most frequently by the mosquito Ochlerotatus (Aedes) vigilax.
Peak infection rates occur between February and April and are influenced by rainfall, humidity, temperature, and flooding.
After a 3 to 11 day incubation period clinical symptoms can begin to manifest and include arthralgia, myalgia, lethargy, and rash.
A number of diagnostic laboratory tests are available including nucleic acid and antibody titer tests.
The GJB2 gene (gap junction protein, beta 2, 26kDa) is located on chromosome 13q11-q12.
This gene encodes a member of the gap junction protein family.
The gap junctions were first characterized by electron microscopy as regionally specialized structures on plasma membranes of contacting adherent cells.
These structures were shown to consist of cell-to-cell channels that facilitate the transfer of ions and small molecules between cells.
The gap junction proteins, also known as connexins, purified from fractions of enriched gap junctions from different tissues differ.
According to sequence similarities at the nucleotide and amino acid levels, the gap junction proteins are divided into two categories, alpha and beta.
Mutations in this gene are responsible for as much as 50% of pre-lingual, recessive deafness.
Thrombospondin type-1 domain-containing protein 7A (THSD7A) is a membrane protein that was initially characterized in placental endothelia, but is also expressed on the basal aspect of podocytes of the kidney.
It has been reported to play a role in actin cytoskeletal integrity, and its soluble form has been shown to promote endothelial cell migration and filopodia formation.
Autoantibodies against THSD7A have been demonstrated to be present in a small subset of patients with idiopathic/primary membranous nephropathy (MN) who do not demonstrate antibodies against the primary target in that disease, the phospholipase A2 receptor (PLA2R) .
A picolinic acid derivative that is used as a herbicide.
Fraxinus velutina (Velvet Ash or Arizona Ash or Modesto Ash) is a species of Fraxinus native to southwestern North America, in the United States from southern California east to Texas, and in Mexico from northern Baja California east to Coahuila and Nuevo León
Cymbopogon citratus, aka lemon grass, is a plant whose oils have shown to have some usefulness as both an antifungal treatment and an antiflammatory one.
Hemoglobin casts are pigmented casts formed by the adhesion of metabolic breakdown products, these casts are so named due to their discoloration.
Pigments include those produced endogenously, such as hemoglobin in hemolytic anemia.
The adherence either of immotile spermatozoa to each other or of motile spermatozoa to mucus strands, non-sperm cells or debris is considered to be nonspecific aggregation.
Sperm aggregation is different from agglutination, which refers to motile spermatozoa sticking to each other.
(WHO laboratory manual for the Examination and processing of human semen FIFTH EDITION)
Oxalate is an organic dicarboxylate that can be found in oxalic acid, soluble salt, or insoluble salt forms.
Oxalate may be consumed in certain foods, or produced within the body by the kidney, liver, epithelial, or apocrine cells.
Humans cannot fully metabolize oxalate, rather bacteria within the gut must break it down.
Oxalate can combine with calcium to form calcium oxalate (CaOx), which accumulates to form microcalcified crystals and kidney stones.
Further studies have shown that the microcalcified crystals can lead to breast cancer or other cancerous tumors if left untreated.
Levofloxacin is a bacteriacidal fluoroquinolone antibiotic that is effective against gram-positive and gram-negative organisms as well as other infectious agents, including Mycobacterium tuberculosis.
It is used to treat a broad range of infections, including pneumonia, multi-drug resistant tuberculosis, and urinary tract infections.
Levofloxacin increases the risk of tendinitis and tendon rupture, and is not recommended for children under the age of 18.
Blood is a highly specialized circulating tissue consisting of several types of cells suspended in a fluid medium known as plasma.
The cellular constituents are: red blood cells, which carry respiratory gases and give it its red color, white blood cells (leukocytes), which fight disease, and platelets, cell fragments which play an important part in the clotting of the blood.
Medical terms related to blood often begin with hemo- or hemato- (BE:haemo- and haemato-) from the Greek word haima for blood.
Anatomically, blood is considered a connective tissue from both its origin in the bones and its function.
Sulbactam-durlobactam (SUL-DUR), formerly ETX2514SUL, is a novel β-lactam-β-lactamase inhibitor designed specifically for the treatment of CRAB infections.
Test to detect allergy to Penicillium notatum(also known as Penicillium chrysogenum), the allergen code is m1.
Penicillium is the blue-green mold that forms on stale bread, cheese, and other foods and is used in the production of green and blue mold cheese.
Penicillium is one of the molds most often producing positive skin test reactions in allergic patients.
P notatum is one of the most common species of Penicillium.
Penicillium molds prefer damp, dark places, but will also grow elsewhere.
Penicillium colonies are rapidly growing, flat, filamentous, and velvety, woolly, or cottony in texture.
11 allergenic components have been identified in P notatum, the major allergen being a 68kDa protein recognized by IgE antibodies in about half the patients.
Hypersensitivity to the penicillium mold has no relationship to hypersensitivity to the antibiotic Penicillin.
Anisakis is a parasitic nematode whose larvae occupy several types of fish and cephalopods such as cod, sardine, tuna, mackerel and squid as intermediate hosts.
Specific IgE-antibodies to Anisakis can contribute to asthma, and it has been shown to cause urticaria, angioodema and anaphylaxis.
Tumor embolization blocks the blood supply to a tumor which reduces blood loss during surgery.
Tumors located in the spine, head, and neck typically have large blood vessels that supply the tumor.
Serentil® (mesoridazine besylate) is a neuroleptic drug that is used in the treatment of schizophrenia, organic brain disorders, psychoneuroses, and alcoholism.
It is the besylate salt of a metabolite of thioridazine.
It exerts its actions through a central adrenergic-blocking, a dopamine -blocking, a serotonin -blocking, and a weak anticholinergic action.
It also exerts part of its actions through depression of hypothalamic centers, like other phenothiazines.
Ambrosia psilostachya is a species of ragweed known by the common names Cuman ragweed, perennial ragweed, and western ragweed.
It is native to most of North America including all of southern Canada, nearly all of the continental United States, and the northern half of Mexico.
It is a common plant in many habitat types, including disturbed areas such as roadsides.
It can be found in parts of Eurasia as an introduced species.
This is an erect perennial herb growing a slender, branching, straw-colored stem to a maximum height near two meters, but more often remaining under one meter tall.
Leaves are up to 12 centimeters long and vary in shape from lance-shaped to nearly oval, and they are divided into many narrow, pointed lobes.
The stem and leaves are hairy.
The top of the stem is occupied by an inflorescence which is usually a spike.
The species is monoecious, and the inflorescence is composed of staminate (male) flower heads with the pistillate heads located below and in the axils of leaves.
The pistillate heads yield fruits which are achenes located within oval-shaped greenish-brown burs about half a centimeter long.
The burs are hairy and sometimes spiny.
The plant reproduces by seed and by sprouting up from a creeping rhizome-like root system.
This plant had a number of medicinal uses among several different Native American groups.
The Obstructive Apnea Hypopnea Index (OAHI) is the average number of obstructive apneas and hypopneas per hour of sleep.
Lurasidone (brandname Latuda) is an atypical antipsychotic used to treat the symptoms of schizophrenia and depressive episodes associated with bipolar I disorder.
It can be used alone or in combination with lithium or valproate.
Movement abnormalities, akathisia, Parkinsonism, dystonia, as well as agitation, anxiety, somnolence, nausea and drowsiness are the most frequent adverse effects.
As of September 2019, lurasidone has a black box warning for "increased mortality in elderly patients with dementia-related psychosis; and suicidal thoughts and behaviors.
Cefixime is an oral third generation cephalosporin antibiotic.
It was sold under the trade name Suprax in the USA, until 2003 when it was taken off the market by drug manufacturer Wyeth after its patent expired.
Cefixime is still available in Canada.
It is used to treat gonorrhea.
Transmembrane pressure (TMP) is the pressure difference across the dialysis membrane.
An increasing TMP in conjunction with decreasing effluent pressure is an indicator of membrane clogging due to protein build-up on the blood side of the filter.
An antidepressant is a medication designed to treat or alleviate the symptoms of clinical depression.
Some antidepressants, notably the tricyclics, are commonly used off-label in the treatment of neuropathic pain, whether or not the patient is depressed.
Smaller doses are generally used for this purpose, and they often take effect more quickly.
Many antidepressants also are used for the treatment of anxiety disorders, and tricyclic antidepressants are used in the treatment of chronic pain disorders such as chronic functional abdominal pain (CFAP), myofascial pain syndrome, and post-herpetic neuralgia.
The main classes of antidepressants have similar efficacy, but the newer types are generally regarded to have a more benign side-effect profile and less risk of lethality if taken in overdose.
The endoglin gene (ENG) and the activin A receptor, type II-like 1 gene (ACVRL1) are most commonly associated with hereditary hemorrhagic telangiectasia (HHT).
Mutations in these genes occur in about 80% of individuals with HHT.
ENG and ACVRL1 encode for membrane glycoproteins involved in transforming growth factor-beta signaling related to vascular integrity.
Mutations in ENG are associated with HHT type 1 (HHT1), a condition with a higher incidence of pulmonary arteriovenous malformations, whereas ACVRL1 mutations occur in HHT type 2 (HHT2), a condition with a higher incidence of hepatic arteriovenous malformations.
The majority of mutations in ENG and ACVRL1 are point mutations, which are identified by sequencing with a detection rate of approximately 60% to 80% of mutations involved in HHT.
Approximately 10% of ENG and ACVRL1 mutations are large genomic deletions and duplications, which are detectable by methods such as multiplex ligation-dependent probe amplification (MLPA).
he joining of a V and a J gene segment creates a continuous exon that encodes the whole of the light-chain V region.
In the unrearranged DNA, the V gene segments are located relatively far away from the C region.
The J gene segments are located close to the C region, however, and joining of a V segment to a J gene segment also brings the V gene close to a C-region sequence.
The J gene segment of the rearranged V region is separated from a C-region sequence only by an intron.
In the experiment shown in Fig.
4.1, the germline DNA fragment identified by the 'V-region probe' contains the V gene segment, and that identified by the 'C-region probe' actually contains both the J gene segment and the C-region sequence.
To make a complete immunoglobulin light-chain messenger RNA, the V-region exon is joined to the C-region sequence by RNA splicing after transcription
Swine vesicular disease (SVD) is an acute, contagious viral disease of swine caused by the swine vesicular disease virus, an enterovirus.
It is characterized by fever and vesicles with subsequent ulcers in the mouth and on the snout, feet, and teats.
The pathogen is relatively resistant to heat, and can persist for a long time in salted, dried, and smoked meat products.
Paired box gene 8, also known as PAX8, is a protein which in humans is encoded by the PAX8 gene, a member of the paired box (PAX) family of transcription factors.
The PAX8 nuclear protein is involved in thyroid follicular cell development and expression of thyroid-specific genes.
It also functions in very early stages of kidney organogenesis.
Mutations in the PAX8 gene have been associated with thyroid dysgenesis, thyroid follicular carcinomas and atypical follicular thyroid adenomas.
P americana is a large Cockroach, up to 5 cm in length, that infests houses, schools, hospitals, and other large buildings.
It prefers damp areas such as basements, and may be found around pipes, sewage systems, and drainage systems.
Cockroach may commonly induce symptoms of asthma, allergic rhinitis, allergic conjunctivitis and allergic dermatitis in sensitised individuals.
These are the most common ailments attributable to Cockroach infestation of housing and are important public health problems.
Cockroach allergens (like Mite allergens) have an association with socioeconomic factors and population density
Non-essential amino acids (NEAA) are amino acids that can be synthesized by the body to meet requirements for maintenance, growth, development, and health.
Although NEAA are not a necessary part of the diet, both plant and animal-based proteins are rich sources.
Examples of NEAAs include: arginine, glutamine, and tyrosine.
NEAAs play important roles in regulating gene expression, cell signaling pathways, digestion and absorption of dietary nutrients, DNA and protein synthesis, proteolysis, metabolism of glucose and lipids, endocrine status, fertility, acid-base balance, anti-oxidative responses, detoxification of xenobiotics and endogenous metabolites, neurotransmission, and immunity.
Cytolethal distending toxin B (CdtB) is a protein that is produced by gram negative bacteria.
CdtB targets eukaryotic DNA.
Antibodies against this toxin can cross react with vinculin, a cytoskeletal protein found in epithelial cells.
In animal models, these vinculin antibodies have been shown to cause symtoms similar to irritable bowel syndrome (IBS).
CdtB antibodies are useful as biomarkers for irritable bowel syndrome with diarrhea (D-IBS) in humans, and may help distinguish D-IBS from inflammatory bowel disease in the workup of chronic diarrhea.
Integrin, alpha E (ITGAE) also known as CD103 (Cluster of Differentiation 103) is an integrin.
CD103 is expressed on a subset of T cells, termed regulatory T cells (Tregs).
Tregs are important for decreasing the immune response and appear to play a crucial role in the prevention of autoimmune diseases.
Tregs are defined as CD4+CD25+Foxp3+ cells.
Some CD4+FoxP3- cells also express CD103 and have been attributed regulatory activity.
The MXI1 gene (MAX interactor 1, dimerization protein) is located on chromosome 10q24-q25.
Expression of the c-myc gene, which produces an oncogenic transcription factor, is tightly regulated in normal cells but is frequently deregulated in human cancers.
The protein encoded by this gene is a transcriptional repressor thought to negatively regulate MYC function, and is therefore a potential tumor suppressor.
This protein inhibits the transcriptional activity of MYC by competing for MAX, another basic helix-loop-helix protein that binds to MYC and is required for its function.
Defects in this gene are frequently found in patients with prostate tumors.
Three alternatively spliced transcripts encoding different isoforms have been described.
Additional alternatively spliced transcripts may exist but the products of these transcripts have not been verified experimentally.
Large, robust forms of brown algae (PHAEOPHYCEAE) in the order Laminariales.
They are a major component of the lower intertidal and sublittoral zones on rocky coasts in temperate and polar waters.
Kelp, a kind of SEAWEED, usually refers to species in the genera LAMINARIA or MACROCYSTIS, but the term may also be used for species in FUCUS or Nereocystis.
An antiviral that is used in the prophylactic or symptomatic treatment of influenza A.
It is also used as an antiparkinsonian agent, to treat extrapyramidal reactions, and for postherpetic neuralgia.
The mechanisms of its effects in movement disorders are not well understood but probably reflect an increase in synthesis and release of dopamine, with perhaps some inhibition of dopamine uptake.
5' Nucleotidase testing provides supportive evidence in the diagnosis of liver disease.
5'-nucleotidase is elevated in liver disease, hepatic carcinoma, biliary cirrhosis, extra-hepatic obstruction and metaplastic metaplasia of the liver and usually is not elevated in skleletal disease.
Von Willebrand factor (vWF) is a high-molecular-weight plasma protein produced by endothelial cells and megakaryocytes.
It is part of the factor VIII/vWF complex.
The vWF has receptors for collagen, platelets, and ristocetin.
Ristocetin is an antibiotic, previously used to treat staphylococcal infections, now mainly used in vitro to diagnose conditions such as von Willebrand disease.
Platelet agglutination caused by ristocetin can occur only in the presence of von Willebrand factor multimers, so if ristocetin is added to blood lacking the factor it will not coagulate.
The vWF facilitates the adhesion of platelets to collagen and hemostatic plug formation.
The prolonged bleeding time in von Willebrand's disease is due to the deficiency of this factor.
Isovaleric acidemia (IVA) is an inherited disorder characterized by inadequate levels of an enzyme that helps break down the amino acid leucine.
In severe cases, signs and symptoms become apparent within a few days after birth and include poor feeding, vomiting, seizures, lethargy, coma, and possibly death.
In other cases, signs and symptoms appear during childhood.
Isovaleric acidemia is caused by mutations in the IVD gene and has an autosomal recessive pattern of inheritance.
Candida dubliniensis is an opportunistic fungal pathogen first isolated in 1995 from the oral cavity of HIV patients, and it is a more common cause of disease in patients with hematologic malignancies.
Although it is a close relative of the major pathogenic species, Candida albicans, and rates of invasive disease caused by C. dubliniensis are possibly increasing, it has proven to be less virulent.
Its phenotypic similarities have sometimes resulted in misidentification as C. albicans.
Isolates have mostly been found to be sensitive to itraconazole, ketoconazole, amphotericin B, and fluconazole, although fluconazole-resistant cases have emerged .
2,2,4-Trimethylpentane, also known as isooctane or iso-octane, is an octane isomer which defines the 100 point on the octane rating scale (the zero point is n-heptane).
It is an important component of gasoline.
This compound is hazardous to the human body.
When 2,2,4-trimethylpentane is inhaled it can cause confusion, dizziness, headaches, nausea, and severe vomiting.
If the substance comes into contact with human skin it can cause the area to become dry, turn red, and become extremely painful.
It can cause kidney damage, altered renal functions and a higher production of alpha2uglobulin protein.
It is also flammable.
Yellowjackets are black-and-yellow wasps of the genus Vespula or Dolichovespula (some can be black-and-white, the most notable of these being the bald-faced hornet, Dolichovespula maculata).
They can be identified by their distinctive combination of black-and-yellow color, small size (slightly larger than a bee), and entirely black antennae.
Fonofos is a light yellow liquid with a sulfurous odor.
It is an organothiophosphorus cholinesterase inhibitor used as an insecticide mainly on corn but also on sugar cane, peanuts, tobacco, turf, and some vegetable crops.
Fonofos is effective in combating aphids, corn borer, corn rootworm, corn wireworm, cutworms, white grubs and some maggots.
It is extremely toxic to aquatic wildlife, bees, birds, freshwater fish and saltwater organisms.
There is no evidence that fonofos bioaccumulates in either the environment or in animal tissue.
Fonofos is toxic to humans if inhaled, ingested, or absorbed through the skin or eyes.
Initial symptoms of exposure to fonofos include blurred vision, headache, dizziness, sweating, muscle twitching, tearing, pain, blurring, nausea, abdominal cramps, and diarrhea.
Extreme exposure can lead to respiratory failure and death.
Fonofos is not classified as a carcinogen.
Exposure to 9 milligrams per cubic meter of air (mg/m³) of antimony for a long time can irritate eyes, skin, and lungs.
Breathing 2 mg/m³ of antimony for a long time can cause problems with the lungs (pneumoconiosis), heart problems (altered electrocardiograms), stomach pain, diarrhea, vomiting, and stomach ulcers.
Other health effects to people who swallow antimony are not known.
Whether antimony can cause cancer or birth defects, or affect reproduction in humans is not known.
Antimony has been used as a medicine to treat people infected with parasites (leishmaniasis).
Patients who have had too much of this medicine, or are sensitive to it, experienced adverse health effects including diarrhea, joint and/or muscle pain, vomiting, problems with the blood (anemia) and heart problems (altered electrocardiograms).
Left ventricular (LV) diastolic filling parameters are based on analysis of LV volume over time as measures of LV diastolic function.
The peak filling rate (PFR) is the maximum change in LV volume over time (dV/dt) during diastole.
The one-third mean filling rate (1/3 MFR) is the average filling rate over the first third of diastole.
The time to PFR (TPFR) is the duration of time from the end of systole to the time where the PFR occurs.
The ratio of TPFR to R-R interval is the ratio of the time to peak filling to the total time of one cardiac cycle.
In one study, patients with the connective tissue disorder systemic sclerosis were found to have significantly higher TPFR and TPFR/R-R interval values compared to controls.
Another study of patients with hypertension found that 1/3 MFR measured after stress was significantly lower in patients with hypertension compared to controls, as was the stress PFR.
Cholestanol (C27H47OH) is formed from the reduction of cholesterol and a marker used to evaluate cholesterol absorption and synthesis disorders, including Smith-Lemli-Optiz syndrome (SLOS) and cerebrotendinous xanthomatosis (CTX).
Patients with CTX have elevated cholestanol levels (3-15 times higher, ranging from 1.3-15 mg/d) and low-to-normal cholesterol levels (usually 115-220 mg/dL).
For CTX, the cholesterol-to-cholestanol ratio is said to be a better indicator of disease than cholestanol concentration alone.
The fruit comes from a tree growing up to 12 metres.
This tree has been cultivated in Southeast Asia and Malaysia for hundreds of years, and now is also found in many places in the New World with appropriate climates.
Carambola may rarely induce symptoms of food allergy in sensitised individuals.
A section to capture the material (e.g. physician forms and pharmacy enrollment forms) to accompany the risk evaluation and mitigation strategies (REMS) structured product labeling (SPL) document, to standardize REMS information for inclusion into pharmacy systems.
A highly acidic mucopolysaccharide formed of equal parts of sulfated D-glucosamine and D-glucuronic acid with sulfaminic bridges.
The molecular weight ranges from six to twenty thousand.
Heparin occurs in and is obtained from liver, lung, mast cells, etc., of vertebrates.
Its function is unknown, but it is used to prevent blood clotting in vivo and vitro, in the form of many different salts.
The IVD gene (isovaleryl-CoA dehydrogenase) is located on chromosome 15q14-q15.
Isovaleryl-CoA dehydrogenase (IVD) is a mitochondrial matrix enzyme that catalyzes the third step in leucine catabolism.
The genetic deficiency of IVD results in an accumulation of isovaleric acid, which is toxic to the central nervous system and leads to isovaleric acidemia.
Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
The CYP2B6 gene (cytochrome P450, family 2, subfamily B, polypeptide 6) is located on chromosome 19q13.2.
This gene, CYP2B6, encodes a member of the cytochrome P450 superfamily of enzymes.
The cytochrome P450 proteins are monooxygenases which catalyze many reactions involved in drug metabolism and synthesis of cholesterol, steroids and other lipids.
This protein localizes to the endoplasmic reticulum and its expression is induced by phenobarbital.
The enzyme is known to metabolize some xenobiotics, such as the anti-cancer drugs cyclophosphamide and ifosphamide.
Transcript variants for this gene have been described; however, it has not been resolved whether these transcripts are in fact produced by this gene or by a closely related pseudogene, CYP2B7.
Both the gene and the pseudogene are located in the middle of a CYP2A pseudogene found in a large cluster of cytochrome P450 genes from the CYP2A, CYP2B and CYP2F subfamilies on chromosome 19q.
Euphorbia is a very large and diverse genus of flowering plants, commonly called spurge, in the spurge family (Euphorbiaceae).
Zygomycota, or zygote fungi, is a phylum of fungi.
The name comes from zygosporangia, where resistant spherical spores are formed during sexual reproduction.
Approximately 1060 species are known.
They are mostly terrestrial in habitat, living in soil or on decaying plant or animal material.
Some are parasites of plants, insects, and small animals, while others form symbiotic relationships with plants.
Zygomycete hyphae may be coenocytic, forming septa only where gametes are formed or to wall off dead hyphae.
The Interleukins belong to the family termed cytokines.
They are peptides used by immune and inflammatory cells to communicate and control cell operations.
The cytokines have some similar actions to the Growth Factors but Growth Factors regulate proliferation of non-immune cells.
Interleukin 2 is a 15,000 molecular weight glycoprotein originally called T Cell Growth Factor.
It is released primarily by activated T Cells.
Its target cells include T and B cells, Natural Killer Cells, and Lymphokine-activated Killer Cells.
Interleukin 2 increases alloantigen responses and improves recovery of immune function.
It also induces production of other lymphokines including Tumor Necrosis Factor, g Interferon, and Interleukin 6.
It is bound to specific Interleukin 2 receptors located on activated T cells, resting and activated B cells, macrophages, and mast cells.
Trichloroethane can refer to either of two isomeric chemical compounds: 1,1,1-Trichloroethane (methyl chloroform) & 1,1,2-Trichloroethane (vinyl trichloride)
Viomycin sulfate (Viocin®) is an polypeptide antibiotic used in the treatment of tuberculosis.
It is produced by the actinomycete Streptomyces puniceus, that binds to RNA and inhibits prokaryotic protein synthesis and certain forms of RNA splicing.
The admission priority indicates the general level of acuity of the patient and how quickly clinical intervention or resuscitation is necessary, from newborn to elective to emergent.
The priority and diagnosis or reason for admission have some overlap but are not the same.
For example, one patient with leukemia might be admitted emergently for sepsis, while another patient with the same diagnosis might have a scheduled admission for chemotherapy.
A semisynthetic cephamycin antibiotic resistant to beta-lactamase.
Glucose (C6H12O6) is a simple monosaccharide and monomer of carbohydrates.
Glucose provides energy for cellular processes and aids metabolism within the body.
When food is ingested, the carbohydrates within the food are broken down into glucose molecules.
Blood glucose content is significant in determining an individual's overall state of health.
An elevated blood glucose level is called hyperglycemia and a deficient blood glucose level is called hypoglycemia.
When an individual is hyperglycemic and cannot properly regulate their blood glucose level they are considered diabetic.
Type 1 diabetes is caused by the immune system attacking pancreatic beta cells (cells that produce insulin) and Type 2 diabetes is caused by insulin resistance.
Daratumumab is a biologic drug used to treat multiple myeloma.
It is a IgG1k human monoclonal antibody directed against CD38, a molecule present on myeloma cells.
By binding to CD38, it inhibits the growth of CD38 expressing tumor cells and causes cell death by immune mediated tumor cell lysis .
The APOB gene (apolipoprotein B) is located on chromosome 2p24-p23.
This gene product is the main apolipoprotein of chylomicrons and low density lipoproteins.
It occurs in plasma as two main isoforms, apoB-48 and apoB-100: the former is synthesized exclusively in the gut and the latter in the liver.
The intestinal and the hepatic forms of apoB are encoded by a single gene from a single, very long mRNA.
The two isoforms share a common N-terminal sequence.
The shorter apoB-48 protein is produced after RNA editing of the apoB-100 transcript at residue 2180 (CAA->UAA), resulting in the creation of a stop codon, and early translation termination.
Mutations in this gene or its regulatory region cause hypobetalipoproteinemia, normotriglyceridemic hypobetalipoproteinemia, and hypercholesterolemia due to ligand-defective apoB, diseases affecting plasma cholesterol and apoB levels.
An abnormal hemoglobin that results from the substitution of lysine for glutamic acid at position 26 of the beta chain.
It is most frequently observed in southeast Asian populations.
Drugs that mimic the effects of stimulating postganglionic adrenergic sympathetic nerves.
Included here are drugs that directly stimulate adrenergic receptors and drugs that act indirectly by provoking the release of adrenergic transmitters.
A food, which may result in allergy symptoms in sensitised individuals.
Lovage probably originated in Central Asia.
It is a hardy herbaceous perennial herb belonging to the Apiaceae family, along with Carrot, Celery, Caraway, Coriander, Dill, Parsley, etc.
Lovage is an especially close relative of Celery, but is 4 times the size.
The herb has been cultivated since the time of Pliny the Elder (23-79 AD), when it was a herbal remedy for sore throat as well as an aphrodisiac.
Lovage was one of the most common flavours in Roman cooking.
Anecdotal evidence suggests that lovage may induce symptoms of food allergy in sensitised individuals; however, no studies have been reported to date; it is possible that allergy to lovage, which is closely related to the significantly allergenic carrot and celery, occurs more frequently than has been reported.
The RR interval standard deviation and coefficient of variability both reflect the variation in the time interval between heart beats over a period of time.
Some degree of variability is normal and is due to physiologic processes such as respiration and blood pressure regulation.
Decreased variability of the RR interval is associated with exercise and stress, as well as congestive heart failure (CHF) and diabetes.
Decreased variability may also be an indicator of increased susceptibility to ventricular arrhythmias and also an independent risk factor for mortality after myocardial infarction and in patients with advanced CHF.
Medications can also affect heart rate variability, which effect is an important consideration when making decisions about which medications to use, especially in high-risk patients.
Spermatozoa penetration testing determines sperm's ability to penetrate cervical mucus.
Measure of the firmness of the clot, represented by the maximum amplitude which has been achieved during coagulation before fibrinolysis (reported in mm).
Lyme disease is a multisystem, multistage infection caused by three species of tick-borne spirochetes in the Borrelia burgdorferi sensu lato genogroup.
These spirochetes include B. burgdorferi sensu stricto (North America and Western Europe), B. afzelii (Central and Western Europe and Russia), and B. garinii (Europe, Russia, and northern Asia).
Endemic areas for Lyme disease in the United States correspond with the distribution of two tick species, Ixodes dammini (Northeastern and Upper Midwestern US) and Ixodes pacificus (West Coast US).
In Europe, Ixodes ricinus transmits the spirochete.
Human Lyme borreliosis, the most prevalent arthropod-borne infection in temperate climate zones around the world, is an inflammatory disorder characterized by the skin lesion erythema migrans and the potential development of neurologic, cardiac, and joint abnormalities.
B. garinii, the most neurotropic of these three genospecies, causes most neurologic Lyme disease in Europe, including cases of meningopolyneuritis and, rarely, encephalomyelitis.
Although probably all three genospecies can cause all major manifestations, it appears that infection with different B. burgdorferi sensu lato genospecies results in distinct presentations of Lyme borreliosis.
In Europe, B. afzelii is mostly associated with skin manifestations, such as erythema migrans, and acrodermatitis chronica atrophicans, whereas B. garinii is the main cause of Lyme neuroborreliosis.
Patients with B. garinii isolated from CSF samples have a distinct clinical presentation, compared with that of patients with B. afzelii infection.
Cycloguanil is a dihydrofolate reductase inhibitor, and is a metabolite of the antimalarial drug proguanil; its formation in vivo has been thought to be primarily responsible for the antimalarial activity of proguanil.
However, more recent work has indicated that, while proguanil is synergistic with the drug atovaquone (as in the combination Malarone), cycloguanil is in fact antagonistic to the effects of atovaquone, suggesting that, unlike cycloguanil, proguanil may have an alternative mechanism of antimalarial action besides dihydrofolate reductase inhibition.
Although cycloguanil is not currently in general use as an antimalarial, the continuing development of resistance to current antimalarial drugs has led to renewed interest in studying the use of cycloguanil in combination with other drugs
A genus of trematodes, Schistosoma, (also called blood-flukes or parasitic flatworms) is responsible for a very significant group of infections in humans termed schistosomiasis.
Schistosomiasis is considered by the World Health Organization as the second most socioeconomically devastating parasitic disease, (after malaria), with hundreds of millions infected worldwide.
The three main species infecting humans are Schistosoma haematobium, S. japonicum, and S. mansoni.
Two other species, more localized geographically, are S. mekongi and S. intercalatum.
Other species of schistosomes which parasitize birds and mammals can cause cercarial dermatitis in humans.
Myeloperoxidase is a neutrophilic enzyme that produces oxidants such as free radicals and hypohalous acids.
This enzyme is released into phagosomes in order to destroy phagocytized pathogens.
Although the oxidants produced by myeloperoxidase aid in immunity defense, these oxidants can also lead to damage of the host tissue and increased oxidative stress (often associated with inflammation).
Elevated levels of myeloperoxidase have been observed in individuals with the following conditions: heart disease, cystic fibrosis, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, rheumatoid arthritis and Alzheimer's disease.
4F-MDMBBINACA is a synthetic cannabinoid that has been encountered on the designer drug market and has been found laced on plant material and marketed under the guise of herbal incense products.
Olanzapine is similar in chemical structure and in mechanism of action to clozapine (Clozaril).
It works by blocking receptors on the nerves of the brain for several neurotransmitters, and it binds to alpha-1, dopamine, histamine H-1, muscarinic, and serotonin type 2 (5-HT2) receptors.
It is used to treat schizophrenia and acute manic episodes associated with the bipolar 1 disorder.
Resistin, also known as adipose tissue-specific secretory factor (ADSF) or C/EBP-epsilon-regulated myeloid-specific secreted cysteine-rich protein (XCP1), is an adipose-derived peptide hormone encoded by the RETN gene.
Resistin has been shown to cause high levels of low-density lipoprotein (LDL), increasing the risk of heart disease.
It is also associated with inflammatory response.
Cenobamate is an anti-seizure medication indicated for adult patients with partial-onset seizures, also known as focal-onset seizures.
It has two mechanisms of action: 1) promoting inactivation of sodium channels; and 2) modulating high affinity GABA A receptors.
Side effects include drowsiness, dizziness, and gait and coordination impairment, which improve over time.
Treponema pallidum is a gram-negative spirochaete bacterium thought to be metabolically crippled.
There are at least four known subspecies: T. pallidum pallidum, which causes syphilis, T. pallidum pertenue, which causes yaws, T. pallidum carateum, which causes pinta and T. pallidum endemicum, which causes bejel.
T. pallidum pallidum is a motile spirochaete that is generally acquired by sexual contact, entering the host via breaches in squamous or columnar epithelium.
The organism can also be transmitted to a fetus by transplacental passage during the later stages of pregnancy, giving rise to congenital syphilis.
The helical structure of T. pallidum pallidum allows it to move in a corkscrew motion through viscous mediums such as mucus.
It gains access to host's blood and lymph systems through tissue and mucus membranes.
Cardiac valve area can be measured (orifice area) or indirectly calculated (effective orifice area).
Direct measurement can be done on echo, and calculations are based on other measurements such as blood flow volume and velocity.
The effective orifice area is calculated based on the equation F=A×V, where F is flow, A is area and V is velocity.
The velocity is measured directly with Doppler echo and indirectly during cardiac catheterization based on the Torricelli law from the transvalvular pressure gradient: V=√2gh, where g is the velocity of acceleration resulting from gravity and h is the pressure gradient.
Therefore, for area as measured by cardiac catheterization, the formula is A=F/√2gh.
Cervical mucus, a heterogenous secretion, contains approximately 90% water.
Cervical mucus properties allow for: respective environment for sperm, protection of spermatozoa from hostile environment of the vagina and being phagocytized, supplemental energy requirements for sperm, differential selection of sperm based on motility and morphology, and initiation of sperm capacitation.
Spermatozoa's ability to penetrate cervical mucus in the female reproductive tract is critical to function and survivability.
Ideal testing involves using the partner's cervical mucus rather than synthetic gels, such as bovine cervical mucus.
Abnormal cervical mucus penetration findings can be an indication of infertility.
Remarks, interpretations, or impressions added to manual differential results by a laboratorian or pathologist.
Norolanzapine (also known as desmethylolanzapine) is one of the metabolites of olanzapine, an atypical antipsychotic used to treat schizophrenia and bipolar disorder.
Olanzapine is metabolized to norolanzapine in the liver by CYP1A2.
The parent drug is the active form, and the metabolites, including norolanzapine, do not contribute significantly
Oxygen Desaturation Index is the average number of oxygen desaturation events, which may be defined, depending on local protocol, as desaturations of either ≥3% or ≥4%, per hour of study duration.
Ritonavir, with trade name Norvir® (Abbott Laboratories), is an antiretroviral drug from the protease inhibitor class used to treat HIV infection and AIDS.
Ritonavir is frequently prescribed as the protease inhibitor component in HAART because it inhibits the same host enzyme that metabolizes NRTIs and NNRTIs.
This inhibition leads to higher plasma concentrations of these latter drugs, allowing the clinician to lower their dose and frequency.
A serotonin agonist that acts selectively at 5HT1 receptors.
It is used in the treatment of MIGRAINE DISORDERS.
Mutations in the NPHS2 gene, which codes for the protein called podocin, can cause focal segmental glomerulosclerosis.
This is a recessive form of Frontal Segmental Glomerulosclerosis.
An affected individual has two mutant copies of the NPHS2 gene, in contrast to ACTN4 and TRPC6 mediated forms of disease, which are dominant and require only one mutant copy of the gene.
NPHS2-mediated FSGS is resistant to treatment with steroids
To reflect the possible activities in which the decedent was engaged at the time of death.
Mitochondrial rRNA is encoded by MT-RNR1 (12S) and MT-RNR2 (16S).
Found on all leukocytes and erythrocytes PNH caused by stem cell clones with decreased CD55 on RBCs
Isomaltase is an enzyme that breaks the bonds linking saccharides, which cannot be broken by amylase or maltase.
It digests polysaccharides at the alpha 1-6 linkages.
Its substrate, alpha-limit dextrin, is a product of amylose digestion that retains its 1-6 linkage (its alpha 1-4 linkages having already been broken down by amylase).
The product of the enzymatic digestion of alpha-limit dextrin by isomaltase is maltose.
It helps amylase to digest a-limit dextrin to produce maltose.
Goosefoot originated in Europe but is now found throughout the world.
Goosefoot pollen can induce asthma, allergic rhinitis and allergic conjunctivitis
In thromobelasticity clot lyis estimate is the degree of lysis 30 minutes after maximum amplitude is reached.
Fenchlorphos is a white to tan crystalline solid that acts as a cholinesterase inhibitor and is used as an insecticide.
It is extremely toxic when inhaled or absorbed through the skin causing rapid and acute organophosphate poisoning.
Symptoms of organophosphate poisoning include headache, sweating, nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, muscle twitching, loss of coordination, and death.
Recurrent exposure to fenchlorphos can cause mental health issues including depression, anxiety or irritability.
Repeat exposure at increased levels of fenchlorphos can cause nerve damage leading to weakness and poor coordination in the arms and legs.
Fenchlorphos is no longer approved to be used in the United States.
A plasma serine proteinase that cleaves the alpha-chains of C3b and C4b in the presence of the cofactors COMPLEMENT FACTOR H and C4-binding protein, respectively.
It is a 66-kDa glycoprotein that converts C3b to inactivated C3b (iC3b) followed by the release of two fragments, C3c (150-kDa) and C3dg (41-kDa).
It was formerly called KAF, C3bINF, or enzyme 3b inactivator.
Silver Birch (Betula pendula) is a widespread European birch, though in southern Europe it is only found at higher altitudes.
Its range extends into southwest Asia in the mountains of northern Turkey and the Caucasus.
The closely related Siberian Silver Birch (B. platyphylla) in northern Asia and Sichuan Birch (B. szechuanica) of central Asia are also treated as varieties of Silver Birch by some botanists, as B. pendula var.
platyphylla and B. pendula var.
szechuanica respectively (see birch classification).
It is a medium size deciduous tree, typically reaching 15-25 m tall, exceptionally up to 30 m, with a slender crown of arched branches with drooping branchlets.
The bark is white, often with black diamond-shaped marks or larger patches at the base.
The shoots are rough with small warts, and hairless, and the leaves 3-6 cm long, triangular with a broad base and pointed tip, and coarsely serrated margins.
Naturally occuring Vitamin D (diet, dermal synthesis) is biologically inactive and requires enzymatic conversion to active metabolites.
In the liver, Vitamin D is converted to 25-hydroxyvitamin D, the major circulating form of vitamin D, and then to 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D, the active form of vitamin D. 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D in turn binds to the intracellular vitamin D receptor.
The Nutmeg tree is a large evergreen native to the Spice Islands but now also cultivated in the Caribbean and Mauritius.
The tree produces 2 spices, Mace and Nutmeg.
Nutmeg is the oval, 25 mm brown seed kernel inside the fruit pit, and Mace is the bright red or purple lacy covering on the pit.
Nutmeg is dried and sold whole or ground, and Mace is dried and powdered.
Both Mace and Nutmeg spice are strongly aromatic, Mace somewhat more so.
Its higher price is principally due to the yield of Mace being much smaller.
It is not certain whether Nutmeg and Mace became known in Europe only in the 11th century AD or were known to the Romans.
Nutmeg may uncommonly induce symptoms of food allergy or contact dermatitis in sensitised individuals.
Few studies, however, have investigated or reported adverse reactions to spices, including Nutmeg.
HNA (Human Neutrophil Antigen) - 1 system has 3 antigens: HNA-1a, HNA1-b and HNA1-c, located on CD16.
The antigens are expressed only on neutrophils.
Enterobacter is a genus of common Gram-negative, facultatively anaerobic, rod-shaped, non-spore-forming bacteria of the family Enterobacteriaceae.
Several strains of these bacteria are pathogenic and cause opportunistic infections in immunocompromised (usually hospitalized) hosts and in those who are on mechanical ventilation.
The urinary and respiratory tracts are the most common sites of infection.
Two clinically important species from this genus are E. aerogenes and E. cloacae.
An ACYCLOVIR analog that is a potent inhibitor of the Herpesvirus family including cytomegalovirus.
Ganciclovir is used to treat complications from AIDS-associated cytomegalovirus infections.
An oligosaccharide (from the Greek oligos, a few, and sacchar, sugar) is a saccharide polymer containing a small number (typically three to nine) of simple sugars (monosaccharides).
Oligosaccharides can have many functions; for example, they are commonly found on the plasma membrane of animal cells where they can play a role in cell-cell recognition.
Oligosaccharides analysis may be performed to detect various lysosomal storage diseases.
Averrhoa carambola is a species of woody plant in the family Oxalidaceae; it has a number of common names including Carambola and Starfruit.
This evergreen tree is from Malaysia and surrounding areas, and might originally have been endemic to the island of Java in Indonesia
A benzenesulfonamide-phthalimidine that tautomerizes to a BENZOPHENONES form.
It is considered a thiazide-like diuretic.
Sirolimus, also known as rapamycin, is a macrolide compound that inhibits lymphocyte proliferation and is used as an immunosuppressant to prevent rejection in organ transplantation.
It inhibits T-cell activation and proliferation by inhibiting the response to interleukin 2 (IL-2).
Its mode of action differs from that of other immunosuppressants (SN Sehga, Clin Biochem, 31:335, 1998) most notably by not being a calcineurin inhibitor.
Its inhibitory action is mediated via a cytosolic protein, FK-binding protein 12.
Sirolimus is variably absorbed; levels need to monitored to achieve the therapeutic target while avoiding toxic levels.
Sirolimus is marketed under the trade name Rapamune.
The mobilized colistin resistance genes (mcr-1 to mcr-5, and variants) are located on a plasmid within bacterial cells and affect the ability of antibiotics, including polymyxins and colistin, to bind to the bacteria.
The mode of action of the antibiotics is to bind to the outer membrane of the phosphate group of lipid A lipopolysaccharide and to intercalate into the inner membrane forming pores that result in bacterial lysis.
The polymyxins & colistin are the last line of defense used to treat multidrug resistant gram-negative bacteria so the emergence of the mcr genes in Enterobacteriaceae, including Klebsiella pneumoniae, is onerous and challenging to public health.
The VS (RH20) antigen is part of the Rh blood group system.
VS is present in up to 50% of people of African descent, but is very rare in people of European and Asian descent.
VS is the result of a leucine to valine change in exon 5 of the RHCE gene and is associated with e super little s, a rare phenotype of e.
Histidine is one of the 20 naturally occuring amino acids with basic R groups.
It serves as a precursor for histamine and carnosine biosynthesis.
Its levels are increased with histidinemia and formiminoglutamic aciduria.
(Information from ARUP Laboratories 9/14/06).
Common dietary sources of histidine are: apples, pomogranates, alfalfa, beets, carrots, celery, cucumber, dandelion, endive, garlic, radish, spinach, and turnip greens.
A plant species of the genus CHRYSANTHEMUM, family ASTERACEAE.
The flowers contain PYRETHRINS, cinerolones, and chrysanthemines which are powerful contact insecticides.
Most in the old Pyrethrum genus are reclassified to TANACETUM; some to other ASTERACEAE genera.
Goldenrod is a perennial weed often found along roadsides and in open fields.
Anecdotal evidence suggests that asthma, allergic rhinitis and allergic conjunctivitis are common following exposure to pollen from Goldenrod, particularly in an occupational setting, e.g., that of flower sellers; however, few specific studies have been reported to date.
However, whether Goldenrod is a significant cause of hay fever remains debatable and asthma has not been reported.
Specific effective airway resistance (sReff) is a calculated expression of specific airway resistance (sRaw) assessed by plethysmography.
sReff considers the respiratory function throughout the full respiratory cycle.
Trisomy 18 risk refers to the fetus's risk of having trisomy 18.
The risk can be estimated based on maternal age and prenatal genetic testing of fetal DNA.Trisomy 18, also called Edwards syndrome, is caused by the presence of three copies of chromosome 18 in each cell rather than two.
Edwards syndrome is associated with intrauterine growth retardation and fetal demise, and liveborn infants with Edwards syndrome typically have low birth weight, congenital heart disease, and characteristic physical features.
Less than 10% of liveborn infants with Edwards syndrome live past their first year.
The general population risk of Edwards syndrome is 1 out of 5,000 live births, and the risk for Edwards syndrome increases with increasing maternal age.
Erucic acid is a monounsaturated omega-9 fatty acid found mainly in the Brassica family of plants such as canola, rapeseed, wallflower seed, mustard seed as well as Brussels spouts and broccoli.
Some Brassica cultivars can have up to 40 to 50 percent of their oil recovered as erucic acid.
Erucic acid is also known as cis-13-docosenoic acid.
The trans isomer is known as brassidic acid.
Erucic acid occurs in nature only along with bitter-tasting compounds.
Erucic acid has many of the same uses as mineral oils but with the advantage that it is more readily bio-degradable.
Its high tolerance to temperature makes it suitable for transmission oil.
Its ability to polymerize and dry means it can be - and is - used as a binder for oil paints.
Increased levels of eicosenoic acid (20:ln9) and erucic acid (22:1n9) have been found in the red blood cell membranes of autistic subjects with developmental regression.
Erucic acid is broken down long-chain acyl-coenzyme A (CoA) dehydrogenase, which is produced in the liver.
This enzyme breaks this long chain fatty acid into shorter-chain fatty acids.
Human infants have relatively low amounts of this enzyme and because of this, babies should not be given foods high in erucic acid.
A synthetic TETRACYCLINE derivative with similar antimicrobial activity.
Animal studies suggest that it may cause less tooth staining than other tetracyclines.
It is used in some areas for the treatment of chloroquine-resistant falciparum malaria (MALARIA, FALCIPARUM).
Thioacetazone(INN and BAN) is also called thiocetazone, thiacetazone, thiosemicarbazone, benzothiozane or amithiozone(USAN); abbreviated T. Thioacetazone is used in the treatment of tuberculosis; it has only weak activity against Mycobacterium tuberculosis and is only useful in preventing resistance to more powerful drugs like isoniazid and rifampicin.
It is never used on its own to treat tuberculosis; it is used in a similar way to ethambutol.
Thioacetazone is the only anti-TB drug that is ineffective when given intermittently.
There is no advantage to using thioacetazone if the regimen used already contains ethambutol, but many countries in sub-Saharan Africa still use thioacetazone because it is extremely cheap.
Use of thioacetazone is declining because it can cause severe (sometimes fatal) skin reactions in HIV positive patients
Scotch broom is a perennial, leguminous shrub native to western and central Europe, from the Iberian Peninsula north to the British Isles and southern Scandinavia, and east to Poland and Romania.
It has been introduced into several other continents outside its native range and is classified as a noxious invasive species in many countries, including the US (on the East Coast and in the Pacific Northwest), South Africa, Australia and New Zealand.
Anecdotal evidence suggests that asthma and hayfever are possible following exposure to pollen from this plant; however, no studies have been reported to date.
The compound hydrogen chloride has the formula HCl.
At room temperature, it is a colorless gas, which forms white fumes of hydrochloric acid upon contact with atmospheric humidity.
Hydrogen chloride gas and hydrochloric acid are important in technology and industry.
The formula HCl is often used to refer, somewhat misleadingly, to hydrochloric acid, an aqueous solution that can be derived from hydrogen chloride.
Whether or not the electrical activity of the atrium is being sensed by the pacemaker.
Triamterene is a diuretic drug and is used to treat high blood pressure.
Triamterene has poor solubility in urine and may precipitate and cause kidney stones.
Nucleolar ANA pattern is seen in sera of patients with progressive systemic sclerosis and Sjögren's syndrome.
Capreomycin is a peptide antibiotic which is given in combination with other antibiotics for tuberculosis.
Adverse effects include nephrotoxicity and 8th cranial nerve toxicity.
The NF1 gene (neurofibromin 1) is located on chromosome 17q11.2.
This gene product appears to function as a negative regulator of the ras signal transduction pathway.
Mutations in this gene have been linked to neurofibromatosis type 1, juvenile myelomonocytic leukemia and Watson syndrome.
The mRNA for this gene is subject to RNA editing (CGA>UGA->Arg1306Term) resulting in premature translation termination.
Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have also been described for this gene.
The emm gene, defined here as the Streptococcus pyogenes gene amplified with primers 1 and 2, encodes the cell surface M virulence protein putatively responsible for at least 100 known M serospecificities of S. pyogenes.
Norepinephrine (INN) or noradrenaline (BAN) is a catecholamine and a phenethylamine with chemical formula C 8 H 11 N O 3.
The natural stereoisomer is L-(ˆ')-(R)-norepinephrine.
It is released from the medulla of the adrenal glands as a hormone into the blood, but it is also a neurotransmitter in the nervous system where it is released from noradrenergic neurons during synaptic transmission.
As a stress hormone, it affects parts of the human brain where attention and impulsivity are controlled.
Along with epinephrine, this compound affects the fight-or-flight response, activating the sympathetic nervous system to directly increase heart rate, release energy from fat, and increase muscle readiness.
Norepinephrine is released when a host of physiological changes activated by a stressful event, unleashed in part by activation of an area of the brain stem called the locus ceruleus.
This nucleus is the origin of most norepinephrine pathways in the brain.
The SMC1A gene (structural maintenance of chromosomes 1A) is located on chromosome Xp11.22-p11.21.
Proper cohesion of sister chromatids is a prerequisite for the correct segregation of chromosomes during cell division.
The cohesin multiprotein complex is required for sister chromatid cohesion.
This complex is composed partly of two structural maintenance of chromosomes (SMC) proteins, SMC3 and either SMC1B or the protein encoded by this gene.
Most of the cohesin complexes dissociate from the chromosomes before mitosis, although those complexes at the kinetochore remain.
Therefore, the encoded protein is thought to be an important part of functional kinetochores.
In addition, this protein interacts with BRCA1 and is phosphorylated by ATM, indicating a potential role for this protein in DNA repair.
This gene, which belongs to the SMC gene family, is located in an area of the X-chromosome that escapes X inactivation.
Mutations in this gene result in Cornelia de Lange syndrome.
Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms.
The IDS gene (iduronate 2-sulfatase) is located on chromosome Xq28.
The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the sulfatase family, is localized to the lysosome, and is involved in lysosomal degradation of heparan sulfate and dermatan sulfate.
Mutations in this gene are associated with the X-linked lysosomal storage disease, mucopolysaccharidosis type II, also known as Hunter syndrome.
Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been described for this gene.
The 17-alpha isomer of TESTOSTERONE, derived from PREGNENOLONE via the delta5-steroid pathway, and via 5-androstene-3-beta,17-alpha-diol.
Epitestosterone acts as an antiandrogen in various target tissues.
The ratio between testosterone/epitestosterone is used to monitor anabolic drug abuse.
A commercially important species of salmon in the family salmonidae, order salmoniformes, which occurs in the North Atlantic.
meta-Chlorophenylpiperazine (mCPP) is a psychoactive drug of the phenylpiperazine class.
It has been detected in pills touted as legal alternatives to illicit stimulants in New Zealand and pills sold as "ecstasy" in Europe and the United States.
Despite its advertisement as a recreational substance, mCPP is actually generally considered to be an unpleasant experience and is not desired by drug users.
It lacks any reinforcing effects, produces depressive and anxiogenic effects in rodents and humans, and can induce panic attacks in individuals susceptible to them.
It also worsens obsessive-compulsive symptoms in people with the disorder.
mCPP is known to induce headaches in humans and has been used for testing potential antimigraine medications.
It has potent anorectic effects and has encouraged the development of selective 5-HT2C receptor agonists for the treatment of obesity as well.
Meta-chlorophenylpiperazine is a major metabolite of the psychotropic drug trazodone, and may be responsible for some of its side-effects, such as headaches and migraines induced many hours after initial consumption.
The genus Phaseolus includes many varieties of edible Beans.
The Green bean, also known as the French bean or Common bean, has a long, slender green pod with small seeds inside.
As a member of the legume family, the Green bean may often result in symptoms of food allergy.
Allergic reactions caused by skin contact or by inhalation of vapor from raw or boiling Green bean have also been reported.
The volume of gas inhaled into the lungs during a single inspiration.
Bovine malignant catarrhal fever (BMCF) is a fatal lymphoproliferative disease caused by a group of ruminant gamma herpes viruses including Alcelaphine Herpes Virus 1 (AlHV-1) and Ovine Herpes Virus 2 (OHV-2)
These viruses cause inapparent infection in their reservoir hosts, (sheep with OHV-2 and wildebeest with AHV-1) but are usually fatal in cattle and other ungulates such as deer, antelope, and buffalo
Dapsone (diamino-diphenyl sulfone) is an antibacterial most commonly used in combination with rifampicin and clofazimine as multidrug therapy (MDT) for the treatment of Mycobacterium leprae infections (leprosy).
It is also second-line treatment for prophylaxis (prevention) against Pneumocystis pneumonia (PCP) caused by Pneumocystis jirovecii (formerly P. carinii) in HIV patients.
Whether or not the electrical activity of the ventricle is being sensed by the pacemaker.
3-hydroxyglutaric acid (3-OH-GA) is an important metabolite in glutaryl co-enzyme A dehydrogenase (GCDH) deficiency and considered to be a potential neurotoxin.
Increased levels of 3-OH-GA is thought to be a biochemical risk factor for neurodegeneration in GCDH deficiency.
Domperidone (trade names Motilium, Motillium, Motinorm and Costi) is an antidopaminergic drug and used orally, rectally or intravenously, generally to suppress nausea and vomiting.
It has also been used to stimulate lactation.
Levothyroxine (LT4) is a synthetically produced hormone used to treat hypothyroidism.
When insufficient circulating LT4 is present, symptoms of hypothyroidism can occur including fatigue, increased heart rate, depression, dry skin and hair, muscle cramps, weight gain and more.
Only small numbers of patients who have experienced an allergic reaction to LT4 have been reported.
One such report was made of a patient who experienced a hypersensitivity reaction to LT4 treatment.
Subsequently, a successful desensitization protocol was performed on the patient who was then able to tolerate treatment with LT4.
Higher infused lymphocyte dose can predict better survival following hematopoietic stem cell transplantation .
The interRAI Home Care Assessment System (HC) has been designed to be a user-friendly, reliable, person-centered assessment system that informs and guides comprehensive care and service planning in community-based settings around the world.
It focuses on the person's functioning and quality of life by assessing needs, strengths, and preferences, and facilitates referrals when appropriate.
When used over time, it provides the basis for an outcome-based assessment of the person's response to care or services.
The interRAI HC can be used to assess persons with chronic needs for care as well as those with post-acute care needs (for example, after hospitalization or in a hospital-at-home situation).
Pro-adrenomedullin (ProADM) is a 185-amino acid precursor protein that gives rise to several biologically active peptides, including adrenomedullin (ADM)17.
ADM is a 52-amino acid peptide with various physiological functions, including vasodilation, positive inotropic effects, diuresis, natriuresis, and bronchodilation
The name Millet is used to describe seeds from several taxonomically divergent species of grass.
The Millets are important sources of food for humans and animals.
But in the West, with the exception of natural food stores, Millet is sold mainly as bird feed.
Hypersensitivity to cereals may occur via inhalation or ingestion.
But in spite of Common millet being regarded as a potent allergen, allergy is uncommon.
The TNM clinical stage recorded by the ambulatory healthcare provider (physician) providing detailed site-specific information on the progression of disease for the cancer or tumor.
It is based on evidence acquired before the initiation of primary treatment (definitive surgery, or neo-adjuvant radiation or systemic therapy).
7-Hydroxyfluphenazine is one of the metabolites of fluphenazine, a drug used to treat schizophrenia which can be administered in both oral and depot formulations.
Oral fluphenazine is rapidly metabolized, and the steady-state level of the parent drug is significantly lower than its metabolites, including 7-hydroxyfluphenazine.
In contrast, after depot administration, the steady-state level of the parent drug is higher than its metabolites.
Patients who are being transitioned from an oral to depot formulation must be closely monitored for increase in symptoms or relapse.
1,4-Cyclohexanediol is an exogenous compound that can be used as biological markers for industrial exposure to cyclohexane.
It has been found by organic acid analysis in patients with cyclohexane exposure, either from primary contamination of intravenous solutions or secondary contamination by leaching from the infusion equipment.
Maltose binding proteins (MBPs) are soluble carrier proteins that, when bound to recombinant proteins, decrease aggregation and increase solubility of those recombinant proteins.
Fusion protein technology is used in allergy testing for recombinant allergens, such as most of the ImmunoCAP recombinant allergens that otherwise would not stay in solution, which is necessary for testing purposes.
Testing for antibodies to MBP alone (without the recombinant allergen) can serve as a negative control to make sure that antibody response to the MBP-allergen molecule is in response to the allergen part of the molecule, and not the MBP.
For example, if a patient has an IgE response to a particular MBP-allergen fused molecule and does not have a response to MBP alone, the MBP-allergen response is likely due to the allergen itself.
However, if a patient has a response to both the MBP-allergen fused molecule and MBP alone, then the result is inconclusive in regards to the allergen.
Major histocompatibility complex, class II, DR beta 5, also known as HLA-DRB5, is a human gene.
The chemical compound isobutyl acetate, also known as 2-methylpropyl ethanoate (IUPAC name) or β-methylpropyl acetate, is a common solvent.
It is produced from the esterification of isobutanol with acetic acid.
It is used as a solvent for lacquer and nitrocellulose.
Like many esters it has a fruity or floral smell at low concentrations and occurs naturally in raspberries, pears and other plants.
At higher concentrations the odor can be unpleasant and may cause symptoms of central nervous system depression such as nausea, dizziness and headache.
Cefditoren is a third-generation cephalosporin antibiotic for oral use.
It is commonly marketed under the trade name Spectracef by Cornerstone BioPharma.
Cefditoren is also marketed under the name Meiact.
Serum albumin, a major protein in blood plasma.
It is important in maintaining the osmotic pressure of the blood.
Normal value is 3.5 to 5.0 g/dL.
Nicardipine hydrochloride (Cardene) is a medication used to treat high blood pressure and angina.
It belongs to the class of calcium channel blockers.
Nicardipine is a dihydropyridine calcium-channel blocking agent used for the treatment of vascular disorders such as chronic stable angina, hypertension, and Raynaud's phenomenon.
It is available in oral and intravenous formulations.
Its mechanism of action and clinical effects closely resemble those of nifedipine and the other dihydropyridines (amlodipine, felodipine), except that nicardipine is more selective for cerebral and coronary blood vessels.
Furthermore, nicardipine does not intrinsically decrease myocardial contractility and may be useful in the management of congestive heart failure.
Nicardipine also has a longer half-life than nifedipine.
It has been used in percutaneous coronary intervention.
Nicardipine must be used with caution in patients with renal failure because of possible kidney shutdown.
Cell cycle DNA analysis is used to quantify the number of cells in various phases of the cell cycle.
Tumor cell cycle analysis can be used to assess the proliferative potential of the tumor, which in some types of cancer can be used as a prognostic indicator.
G0 is a quiescent phase during which cells are metabolically active but no longer proliferate unless called on to do so by appropriate extracellular signals.
The G1 phase is the interval between mitosis and start of DNA replication during which the cell is metabolically active and continuously grows but does not replicate its DNA.
G1 is followed by the S phase, during which DNA replication occurs.
G2 follows S, and during G2 the cell continues to grow and synthesize proteins in preparation for mitosis.
The M phase of the cycle corresponds to mitosis, during which the cell divides.
The CLCN1 gene (chloride channel, voltage-sensitive 1) is located on chromosome 7q35.
The CLCN family of voltage-dependent chloride channel genes comprises nine members (CLCN1-7, Ka and Kb) which demonstrate quite diverse functional characteristics while sharing significant sequence homology.
The protein encoded by this gene regulates the electric excitability of the skeletal muscle membrane.
Mutations in this gene cause two forms of inherited human muscle disorders: recessive generalized myotonia congenita (Becker) and dominant myotonia (Thomsen).
Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants.
The CYP2D6 gene (cytochrome P450, family 2, subfamily D, polypeptide 6) is located on chromosome 22q13.1.
This gene encodes a member of the cytochrome P450 superfamily of enzymes.
The cytochrome P450 proteins are monooxygenases which catalyze many reactions involved in drug metabolism and synthesis of cholesterol, steroids and other lipids.
This protein localizes to the endoplasmic reticulum and is known to metabolize as many as 25% of commonly prescribed drugs.
Its substrates include antidepressants, antipsychotics, analgesics and antitussives, beta adrenergic blocking agents, antiarrythmics and antiemetics.
The gene is highly polymorphic in the human population; certain alleles result in the poor metabolizer phenotype, characterized by a decreased ability to metabolize the enzyme's substrates.
Some individuals with the poor metabolizer phenotype have no functional protein since they carry 2 null alleles whereas in other individuals the gene is absent.
This gene can vary in copy number and individuals with the ultrarapid metabolizer phenotype can have 3 or more active copies of the gene.
Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
A cyclic polypeptide antibiotic from Bacillus colistinus.
It is composed of Polymyxins E1 and E2 (or Colistins A, B, and C) which act as detergents on cell membranes.
Colistin is less toxic than Polymyxin B.
The methanesulfonate is taken orally.
The TIMI classification describes coronary artery perfusion beyond the point of occlusion as seen on coronary angiography.
It was developed by the Thrombolysis In Myocardial Infarction (TIMI) study group.
The TIMI grades are described as follows: TIMI 0- failure of dye to enter the microvasculature beyond the point of occlusion; TIMI 1 - dye slowly enters and is seen as a faint antegrade coronary flow beyond the occlusion but fails to exit the microvasculature; TIMI 2 - delayed or sluggish antegrade flow with complete filling and exiting of the distal territory; and TIMI 3 - normal flow with complete filling and exiting of the distal territory.
Magnesium, an abundant mineral in the body, is naturally present in many foods, added to other food products, available as a dietary supplement, and present in some medicines (such as antacids and laxatives).
It is a cofactor in more than 300 enzyme systems that regulate diverse biochemical reactions in the body, including protein synthesis, muscle and nerve function, blood glucose control, and blood pressure regulation.
Magnesium is required for energy production, oxidative phosphorylation, and glycolysis.
It contributes to the structural development of bone and is required for the synthesis of DNA, RNA, and the antioxidant glutathione.
Magnesium is widely distributed in plant and animal foods and in beverages.
Green leafy vegetables, such as spinach, legumes, nuts, seeds, and whole grains, are good sources.
In general, foods containing dietary fiber provide magnesium.
Magnesium is also added to some breakfast cereals and other fortified foods.
A class I anti-arrhythmic agent (one that interferes directly with the depolarization of the cardiac membrane and thus serves as a membrane-stabilizing agent) with a depressant action on the heart similar to that of guanidine.
It also possesses some anticholinergic and local anesthetic properties.
The D816V (c.2447A>T) mutation in exon 17 of the KIT gene on chromosome 4 is associated with systemic mastocytosis (SM) and less commonly gastrointestinal stromal tumors (GIST), acute myeloid leukemia (AML), and germ cell tumors.
The vast majority of patients with SM carry the somatic D816V mutation.
According to the World Health Organization, the presence of the mutation is one of the minor criteria for a diagnosis of SM.
The presence of D816V in multiple cells lines, including mast cells, bone marrow myeloid cells, and lymphoid cells, is also associated with a greater risk of disease progression.
Metenolone (methenolone, Nibal, Primbolan) is a long-acting anabolic steroid with weak androgenic (testosterone or androsterone-like) properties.
It is supplied as the acetate ester for oral administration and as the enanthate ester for intramuscular injection.
Adult doses for the treatment of aplastic anemia are usually in a range of 1-3 mg/kg per day.
An essential amino acid that is necessary for normal growth in infants and for NITROGEN balance in adults.
It is a precursor of INDOLE ALKALOIDS in plants.
It is a precursor of SEROTONIN (hence its use as an antidepressant and sleep aid).
It can be a precursor to NIACIN, albeit inefficiently, in mammals.
Langust has a major allergen of 36 kD in common with shrimp (f24), crayfish (Rf320) and crab (f23).
Crossreactivity with other Crustaceans can also be expected.
Return pressure is the pressure of the blood in the return part of the circuit as the blood is returned to the patient.
The lychee (Litchi chinensis, and commonly called litchi, laichi, lichu) is the sole member of the genus Litchi in the soapberry family
The sensory nerve action potential (SNAP) measures the action potential in sensory nerve fibers in one location when another location along the same nerve is stimulated.
Prostaglandin E is a family of naturally occurring prostaglandins and may be used pharmaceutically in medicine.
Types include Prostaglandin E1 also termed Alprostadil and Prostaglandin E2 also termed Dinoprostone
D-2-hydroxyglutarate (D-2-HG, D2HG) and L-2-hydroxyglutarate (L-2-HG, L2HG), are isomeric forms of 2-hydroxyglutaric acid.
Accumulation of D-2-HG and/or L-2-HG in body fluids (e.g. urine, CSF, amniotic fluid, plasma) are the biochemical hallmarks of 2-hydroxyglutaric acidurias (2-HGAs), which are inborn organic acidurias that cause neurological impairment at a young age.
Results are used to determine the 2-HGA type: D-2-HGA, L-2-HGA or D,L-2-HGA.
One of the many biological active cobalamins (corrinoids) which may be subsumed under the name Vitamin B12.
The vitamin B12 given as a medication is Cyanocobalamin.
As part of the measurement process of vitamin B12 in biologic specimens, the cobalamins present in that specimen are converted to the cyanocobalamin form.
But Cyanocobalamin is not found in biologic specimens
24,25-Dihydroxycholecalciferol, also known as 24,25-dihydroxyvitamin D3 and (24R)-hydroxycalcidiol (abbreviated as 24(R),25-(OH)2D3), is a compound which is closely related to 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D3, the active form of vitamin D3, but like vitamin D3 itself and 25-hydroxyvitamin D3 is inactive as a hormone both in vitro and in vivo.
5p deletion risk refers to the fetus's risk of having 5p deletion syndrome, also known as Cri-du-chat syndrome.
The risk can be derived from the general population risk as well as prenatal genetic testing of fetal DNA.
5p deletion syndrome is caused by the deletion of the short arm of chromosome 5.
5p deletion syndrome is associated with low birth weight, weak muscle tone, cognitive delay and microcephaly.
The general population risk of 5p deletion is about 1 in 20,000 - 50,000 live births, and does not change with maternal age.
A long-acting dopamine agonist which is effective in the treatment of Parkinson's disease and hyperprolactinemia.
It has also been observed to have antihypertensive effects.
One of the enzymes active in the gamma-glutamyl cycle.
It catalyzes the synthesis of glutathione from gamma-glutamylcysteine and glycine in the presence of ATP with the formation of ADP and orthophosphate. .
Canine coronavirus is a virus of the family Coronaviridae that causes a highly contagious intestinal disease worldwide in dogs The incubation period is only one to three days.
The disease is highly contagious and is spread through the feces of infected dogs, who usually shed the virus for six to nine days, but sometimes for six months following infection.
Symptoms include diarrhea, vomiting, and anorexia.
Diagnosis is through detection of virus particles in the feces.
Treatment usually only requires medication for diarrhea, but more severely affected dogs may require intravenous fluids for dehydration.
The virus is destroyed by most available disinfectants.
Malonylcarnitine is a metabolite that accumulates with specific disruption of fatty-acid oxidation caused by impaired entry of long-chain acylcarnitine esters into the mitochondria and failure of the mitochondrial respiratory chain at complex 11 and malonyl-CoA decarboxylase deficiency.
Malonylcarnitine has also been found to accumulate in some newborns with medium-chain acyl-CoA dehydrogenase deficiency, ,, .
The COL5A1 gene (collagen, type V, alpha 1) is located on chromosome 9q34.2-q34.3.
This gene encodes an alpha chain for one of the low abundance fibrillar collagens.
Fibrillar collagen molecules are trimers that can be composed of one or more types of alpha chains.
Type V collagen is found in tissues containing type I collagen and appears to regulate the assembly of heterotypic fibers composed of both type I and type V collagen.
This gene product is closely related to type XI collagen and it is possible that the collagen chains of types V and XI constitute a single collagen type with tissue-specific chain combinations.
The encoded procollagen protein occurs commonly as the heterotrimer pro-alpha1(V)-pro-alpha1(V)-pro-alpha2(V).
Mutations in this gene are associated with Ehlers-Danlos syndrome, types I and II.
Alternative splicing of this gene results in multiple transcript variants.
A 17-ketosteroid is a steroid that has a ketone (C=O) functional group at the 17 position (in the upper right corner of most diagrams.)
Examples of 17-ketosteroids include: Androstenedione, Androsterone, Estrone and Dehydroepiandrosterone.
Laminin subunit alpha-2 is a protein that in humans is encoded by the LAMA2 gene.
Laminin, an extracellular protein, is a major component of the basement membrane.
It is thought to mediate the attachment, migration, and organization of cells into tissues during embryonic development by interacting with other extracellular matrix components.
It is composed of three subunits, alpha, beta, and gamma, which are bound to each other by disulfide bonds into a cross-shaped molecule.
This gene encodes the alpha 2 chain, which constitutes one of the subunits of laminin 2 (merosin) and laminin 4 (s-merosin).
Mutations in this gene have been identified as the cause of congenital merosin-deficient muscular dystrophy.
Two transcript variants encoding different proteins have been found for this gene.
Sequoia is a genus of redwood coniferous trees in the family Cupressaceae, the only living example of which is Sequoia sempervirens.
A lactogenic hormone secreted by the adenohypophysis (pitiutary gland anterior), prolactin is a polypeptide of approximately 23 kD. Besides its major action on lactation, in some species prolactin effects reproduction, maternal behavior, fat metabolism, immunomodulation and osmoregulation.
Prolactin receptors are present in the mammary gland, hypothalamus, liver, ovary, testis, and prostate.
Total Blood Volume = Erythrocyte Volume + Plasma Volume
3-Hydroxyphenylacetic acid is a rutin metabolite and an antioxidant.
It has a protective biological activity in humans.
It is a substrate of enzyme 4-hydroxyphenylacetate 3-monooxygenase in the pathway tyrosine metabolism.
Cholecalciferol, also known as Vit D3, is a fat-soluble prohormone.
Vitamin D has many functions including the regulation of calcium and phosphorus levels in blood, the promotion of bone formation and mineralization, and aid to the immune system by supporting phagocyctosis, anti-tumor activity, and immunomodulatory functions.
A deficiency of vitamin D can be due to many causes including inadequate dietary intake, insufficient sunlight, malabsorption problems, inability to convert vitamin D into its active metabolite, kidney or liver impairment and many others.
Vitamin D occurs naturally only in fish.
It is produced in the skin when UVB radiation from sunlight reacts with 7-dehydrocholesterol (a derivative of cholesterol) to form pre-vitamin D3.
The pre-vitamin D3 isomerizes to Vitamin D and is then hydroxylated in the liver to 25-hydroxycholecalciferol.
25-hydroxycholecalciferol is in turn hydroxylated in the kidney into two dihydroxylated metabolites which are 1,25-dihydroxycholecalciferol (the active hormone) and 24R,25 (OH)2D3.
Cupressus macrocarpa, commonly known as Monterey Cypress or Macrocarpa, is a species of cypress endemic to the central coast of California.
Suberylglycine is a dicarboxylic acid.
It is formed by glycine-N-acylase catalyzed conjugation.
It can be used for the diagnosis of hereditary medium-chain acyl-CoA dehydrogenase deficiency.
Rinderpest (also cattle plague or steppe murrain) was an infectious viral disease of cattle, domestic buffalo, and some other species of even-toed ungulates, including buffaloes, large antelopes and deer, giraffes, wildebeests and warthogs.
After a global eradication campaign, the last confirmed case of rinderpest was diagnosed in 2001.The disease is characterized by fever, oral erosions, diarrhea, lymphoid necrosis, and high mortality.
A cysteine endopeptidase isolated from papaya latex.
Preferential cleavage at glutamic and aspartic acid residues. .
Concanavalin A (Con A) is a plant mitogen that encourages T-lymphocytes to divide when the mitogen encounters its surface receptors.
T-lymphocyte proliferation assays with ConA stimulation is useful when patients are thought to have reduced cellular immune activity, have primary or secondary immunodeficiency diseases and in patients with humoral immunodeficiency diseases.
Patient recovery from post-hematopoietic stem cell transplant or on immunosuppressive therapy post solid-organ transplantation can also be assessed by evaluating their T-cell recovery with lymphocyte proliferation testing.
Abnormal results are not indicative of any specific disease and nor is the level of abnormality suggestive of the degree of immunodeficiency.
The results of the lymphocyte proliferation test can be affected by alcohol use, many therapeutic drugs and acute illness.
There are several ribosomal antigens.
P (phospho) protein (P0, P1 & P2) is the most common.
Other ribosomal antigens are L12 protein, L5/5s, S10, Ja, L7 and rRNA (ribosomal ribonucleoprotein)
11-oxygenated C19 (11oxC19) steroids are produced in the adrenal gland.
11oxC19s include 11-Hydroxytestosterone (11-OHT) and 11-Ketotestosterone (11-KT).
11-OHT is formed from testosterone, and 11-KT is formed from 11-OHT. 11-KT is a potent androgen and binds to the human androgen receptor AR.
Various 11oxC19 steroids, including 11-OHT and 11-KT, are emerging as potentially useful biomarkers in patients with endocrine disorders such as congenital adrenal hyperplasia, polycystic ovary syndrome, androgen-dependent and androgen-producing tumors, and premature adrenarche.
Specifically, higher than normal levels of 11oxC19 steroids have been found in patients with 21-hydroxylase deficiency and in polycystic ovary syndrome.
The 11oxC19 steroids are also thought to increase progression of castration-resistant prostate cancer, and might have clinical implications in adrenarche and postmenopausal women.
An indication that a person has a condition or disease.
Some examples of symptoms are headache, fever, fatigue, nausea, vomiting, and pain.
A short-acting sulfonamide antibacterial with activity against a wide range of gram- negative and gram-positive organisms.
Information about where the patient is in Hemostasis/Thrombosis spectrum.
OPC3373 is a metabolite of aripiprazole (Abilify), an atypical antipsychotic drug used to treat the symptoms of schizophrenia.
Urine levels of OPC3373 appear to be a reliable marker for monitoring patient compliance for medication adherence.
Lymphoma markers look for particular molecules of a very specific type that are located on the surface of the cells.
On the surface of the cells that carry the lymphoma, these cells are called lymphocytes, the molecules residing there are called CD markers (Cluster Differentiation).
We have so far managed to identify a little under one hundred of these different types of cells and what makes them so useful is that when a normal lymphocyte change over time from newly built cells into mature cells, the markers also change.
Cells that used to look the same when inspected under a microscope now was found to carry different CD markers leading to completely different behavior.
Noroviruses (genus Norovirus, family Caliciviridae) are a group of related, single-stranded RNA, nonenveloped viruses that cause acute gastroenteritis in humans.
Norovirus was recently approved as the official genus name for the group of viruses provisionally described as "Norwalk-like viruses" (NLV).
This group of viruses has also been referred to as caliciviruses (because of their virus family name) and as small round structured viruses, or SRSVs (because of their morphologic features).
Noroviruses are named after the original strain "Norwalk virus," which caused an outbreak of gastroenteritis in a school in Norwalk, Ohio, in 1968.
Flubromazolam is a "designer" benxodiazepine, and has a 1-4 triazolobenzodiazepine structure (similar to etizolam, triazolam and alprazolam) with a very high potency and long-lasting depressive effects on the central nervous system.
The most abundant metabolite is alpha-hydroxy flubromazolam, which is used for urinary detection.
Fatty acids are carboxylic acids with a long aliphatic tail, and naturally occurring fatty acids usually have an even number of carbon atoms.
Short chain fatty acids have less than six carbons, medium chain have six to twelve, long chain have 14 to 20, and very long chain fatty acids have 22 or more carbon atoms.
Fatty acids are important sources of fuel during fasting or times of high metabolic demand, especially for heart and skeletal muscle, and are oxidized by mitochondria to produce ATP.
Patients with a fatty acid oxidation disorder are unable to use fatty acids for energy and can present with hypoketotic hypoglycemia, liver disease and failure, skeletal myopathy, cardiomyopathy or sudden death in early life, and severe episodes of metabolic decompensation can occur during periods of fasting or illness.
Detects the ability of neutrophils to ingest latex particles.
Index is calculated by dividing the % postitive at 37 deg by % positive at 4 deg.
Western equine encephalitis (WEE) is a relatively uncommon viral infection caused by the WEE virus, an Alphavirus of the family Togaviridae.
WEE virus is an (arthropod-borne virus) transmitted by mosquitoes of the genera Culex and Culiseta.
There have been under 700 confirmed cases in the U.S. since 1964.
In the U.S. WEE is seen mainly in states west of the Mississippi River.
The disease is also seen in countries of South America.
WEE is commonly a subclinical infection; symptomatic infections are uncommon.
However, the disease can cause serious sequellae in infants and children.
Unlike Eastern equine encephalitis, the overall mortality of WEE is low (approximately 4%) and is associated mostly with infection in the elderly.
There is no vaccine for WEE and there are no licensed therapeutic drugs in the U.S. for this infection.
Amaranthus tuberculatus, commonly known as tall waterhemp or roughfruit amaranth, is a species of flowering plant.
It is a summer annual broadleaf with a germination period that lasts several months.
Tall waterhemp has been reported as a weed in 40 of 50 U.S. States.
The SH2D1A gene (SH2 domain containing 1A) is located on chromosome Xq25.
This gene encodes a protein that plays a major role in the bidirectional stimulation of T and B cells.
This protein contains an SH2 domain and a short tail.
It associates with the signaling lymphocyte-activation molecule, thereby acting as an inhibitor of this transmembrane protein by blocking the recruitment of the SH2-domain-containing signal-transduction molecule SHP-2 to its docking site.
This protein can also bind to other related surface molecules that are expressed on activated T, B and NK cells, thereby modifying signal transduction pathways in these cells.
Mutations in this gene cause lymphoproliferative syndrome X-linked type 1 or Duncan disease, a rare immunodeficiency characterized by extreme susceptibility to infection with Epstein-Barr virus, with symptoms including severe mononucleosis and malignant lymphoma.
Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
A species of protozoa that is a cause of bovine babesiosis.
Ticks of the genera Boophilus, Rhipicephalus, and IXODES are the chief vectors.
A steroid hormone with weak androgenic activity.
It is made in the liver from the metabolism of testosterone.
The consumption of large amounts of celery can cause an increase in the production of this hormone in males.
Androsterone has pheromonic properties.
A referral note is a note that is sent to a consultant for a consultation (e.g. opinion, testing, etc).
This might often be initiated by a primary care provider seeking advice from a specialist while the overall care remains with the PCP.
Ustilago and Tilletia are types of smut fungi, which are multicellular, parasitic fungi that affect plants such as corn and other crops.
Spores from these fungi have been found in hospitals and school classrooms, and they may be associated with human allergy, especially in those with underlying asthma.
Beta-ureidoisobutyrate (betaUIB) is increased in the urine of patients with beta-ureidopropionase deficiency.
Ureidoisobutyric acid can be used to predict patient's individual phenotypes of enzyme deficiencies in pyrimidine metabolism when associated with a risk for severe toxicity against the antineoplastic agent 5-fluorouracil.
Naphthalene, also known as naphthalin, bicyclodeca-1,3,5,7,9-pentene or antimite is a crystalline, aromatic, white, solid hydrocarbon with formula C10H8 and the structure of two fused benzene rings.
It is best known as the traditional, primary ingredient of mothballs.
It is volatile, forming a flammable vapor, and readily sublimes at room temperature, producing a characteristic odor that is detectable at concentrations as low as 0.08 ppm by mass.
Exposure to large amounts of naphthalene may damage or destroy red blood cells.
Humans, particularly children, have developed this condition, known as hemolytic anemia, after ingesting mothballs or deodorant blocks containing naphthalene.
Symptoms include fatigue, lack of appetite, restlessness, and pale skin.
Exposure to large amounts of naphthalene may cause nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, blood in the urine, and jaundice (yellow coloration of the skin).
Varicella zoster virus (VZV) is a double-stranded alphaherpesvirus that causes seasonal outbreaks of chickenpox and shingles in non-immunized populations.
VZV is highly infectious and is transmitted by contact with the ruptured fluid filled blisters and respiratory secretions of infected individuals.
Immunity post infection is usually lifelong though the latent virus inhabits the sensory nerve ganglia where it can reactivate causing shingles when immunity declines with aging.
In the over fifty strains of VZV that have been sequenced it has been found that a single nucleotide polymorphism occurs about every 100 bases.
The patterns of polymorphisms in VZV correlate with different geographical regions of infection and is the basis for the classification of viral clades.
Breuer proposed the nomenclature for the VZV clades as 1-5 with the suspected clades VI and VII to be confirmed later.
Aureobasidium pullulans is a fungus that appears in the surface layers of soils and has also been reported on wheat seeds, barley, oats, tomato and pecans.
Aureobasidium may result in adverse effects via a number of pathophysiological mechanisms including: (a) infection by the organism, (b) generation of a deleterious immune response (e.g. allergy or hypersensitivity pneumonitis), and c) toxic-irritant effects from mould metabolites (e.g. mycelial components, mycotoxins, or volatile organic compounds).
The fungal beta tubulin (BT2) gene is present across varieties of common as well as rare pathogenic and non-pathogenic fungi.
The BT2 gene contains a region that is highly conserved across species and which can be used as a pan-fungal molecular target to detect the presence of fungal pathogens.
A positive result is followed up by further testing to determine the specific species present.
The LPA gene, previously called LP, is located on chromosome 6 and encodes the apolipoprotein(a) portion of lipoprotein(a).
Several variants in the LPA gene have been associated with increased levels of Lp(a) as well as increased risk of cardiovascular disease.
One of these variants is c.5673A>G (rs3798220), which results in a change from isoleucine to methionine at position 4399 (p.Ile4399Met, also known previously as position 1891).
Another variant is c.3947+467T>C (rs10455872), which is located in intron 25.
HPIV-3 peak activity occurs during the spring and early summer months each year, but the virus can be isolated througout the year.
HPIVs are negative-sense, single-stranded RNA viruses that possess fusion and hemagglutinin-neuraminidase glycoprotein "spikes" on their surface.
HPIVs are spread from respiratory secretions through close contact with infected persons or contact with contaminated surfaces or objects.
HPIVs are ubiquitous and infect most people during childhood.
Isophorone is an α,β-Unsaturated cyclic ketone, a colorless to yellowish liquid with characteristic smell, that is used as a solvent and as an intermediate in organic synthesis.
Isophorone also occurs naturally in cranberries.
9-Hydroxyrisperidone, also called paliperidone, is an active metabolite of risperidone and is itself a prescribable atypical antipsychotic.
Although 9-Hydroxyrisperidone is a metabolite of risperidone, they have several important differences including serotonin 5-HT2A and dopamine D2 receptor binding, and ability to cross the blood brain barrier (BBB).
Risperidone has a significantly lower 5-HT2A/D2 binding ratio and crosses the BBB more effectively.
Both drugs are used to treat schizophrenia and other related disorders.
Homocysteine can circulate in the plasma by itself, be oxidized to the disulfide homocystine (Hcy-Hcy), or bound to cysteine (Hcy-Cys).
The MVK gene (mevalonate kinase) is located on chromosome 12q24.
This gene encodes the peroxisomal enzyme mevalonate kinase.
Mevalonate is a key intermediate, and mevalonate kinase a key early enzyme, in isoprenoid and sterol synthesis.
Mevalonate kinase deficiency caused by mutation of this gene results in mevalonic aciduria, a disease characterized psychomotor retardation, failure to thrive, hepatosplenomegaly, anemia and recurrent febrile crises.
Defects in this gene also cause hyperimmunoglobulinaemia D and periodic fever syndrome, a disorder characterized by recurrent episodes of fever associated with lymphadenopathy, arthralgia, gastrointestinal dismay and skin rash.
Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants.
Isobutane, also known as methylpropane or 2-methylpropane, is an alkane, isomeric with butane.
It is the simplest alkane with a tertiary carbon.
Recent concerns with depletion of the ozone layer by freon gases have led to increased use of isobutane as a gas for refrigeration systems, especially in domestic refrigerators and freezers, and as a propellant in aerosol sprays.
When used as a refrigerant or a propellant, isobutane is also known as R-600a.
Some portable camp stoves use a mixture of isobutane with propane, usually 80:20.
Isobutane is used as a feedstock in the petrochemical industry, for example in the synthesis of isooctane.
Isobutane is the R group for the amino acid leucine.
The ATRX gene (alpha thalassemia/mental retardation syndrome X-linked) is located on chromosome Xq21.1.
The protein encoded by this gene contains an ATPase/helicase domain, and thus it belongs to the SWI/SNF family of chromatin remodeling proteins.
This protein is found to undergo cell cycle-dependent phosphorylation, which regulates its nuclear matrix and chromatin association, and suggests its involvement in the gene regulation at interphase and chromosomal segregation in mitosis.
Mutations in this gene are associated with an X-linked mental retardation (XLMR) syndrome most often accompanied by alpha-thalassemia (ATRX) syndrome.
These mutations have been shown to cause diverse changes in the pattern of DNA methylation, which may provide a link between chromatin remodeling, DNA methylation, and gene expression in developmental processes.
Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms have been reported.
Red cedar (J. virginiana) is native to North America east of the Great Plains, from southeastern Canada to the Gulf of Mexico.
Red cedar is a form of Cypress tree, not a true Cedar (genus Cedrus) but a variety of Juniper.
Red cedar is the most abundant Juniper in all of the eastern United States and southeastern Ontario, appearing in fields and pastures and dry rocky places.
Although only sparse reports document sensitisation to Red cedar, anecdotal evidence suggests that asthma and hayfever are possible following exposure to pollen from this tree.
Red cedar has been reported to be a significant cause of early spring hayfever, and occasionally asthma, in the southeastern states of the USA.
Ghrelin is a 28-amino-acid peptide known as the "hunger hormone" and produced by ghrelin cells in the gastrointestinal tract where it has an important physiological effect on gastric acid secretion and gastrointestinal motility.
Ghrelin acts on hypothalamic brain cells to increase hunger and increase gastric acid secretion and gastrointestinal motility to prepare the body for food intake.
In clinical studies related to energy and glucose metabolism, ghrelin is often measured.
Defective ghrelin signaling from the stomach could contribute to abnormalities in energy balance, growth, and associated gastrointestinal and neuroendocrine functions.
Squamous cell carcinoma (SCC) antigen levels alone should not be interpreted as evidence to the presence or absence of malignant disease.
In patients with known or expected cancer, other tests and procedures must be considered for diagnosis and patient management.
Homogentisic acid is the common name for 2,5-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid.
It is less commonly known as "Melanic acid".
Accumulation of excess homogentisic acid is a result of the failure of the enzyme homogentisic acid 1,2-dioxygenase (typically due to a mutation) and is associated with alkaptonuria.
Distance from Sella to Articulare
Percent methylation is one of the tests ordered after more conventional Fragile X testing is positive.
This test is performed only on full mutation patients, and is more frequently requested in males.
The value is traditionally reported as a percent, and it represents the fraction of all full mutation bands that are methylated.
Effectively, it represents the proportion of the patient's cells that would not be able to make protein.
Clinically, higher % methylation results in lower levels of protein and, therefore, decreased cognitive ability.
The calculation is done from band intensities on a Southern blot as follows: (methylated full mutation band intensities) / (sum of intensities of the methylated full mutation bands + unmethylated full mutation bands).
Genetic disorders in humans are often a result of unbalanced chromosome abnormalities with net gain or loss of genetic material.
Early technologies for chromosome analysis involved examining the banding patterns to assess chromosome deletion and/or duplication, known as a karyotype.
Karotyping does not reveal microdeletions.
Newer technologies have emerged including microarray, which includes both array comparative genomic hybridization (arrCGH) and SNP-based microarray, fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) and polymerase chain reaction (PCR).
Microarray can detect aneuploidies, deletions, duplications, and amplifications of any locus within the array.
It can identify genetic aberrations that include trisomy 13, trisomy 18 and trisomy 21.
FISH is able to demonstrate duplications, deletions, translocations and amplifications of DNA.
It is able to assess multiple genetic anomalies using different fluorescent dyes and multiple probes.
Among other uses, FISH can detect HER-2/neu to determine if a patient would benefit from treatment with Herceptin and identify BCR-ABL in a patient with chronic myelogenous leukemia to determine if imatinib would be an effective treatment.
A plant species cultivated for the seed used as animal feed and as a source of canola cooking oil.
Standardizing risk evaluation and mitigation strategies (REMS) information for inclusion into pharmacy systems using the structured product labeling (SPL) REMS document type.
Cathepsin K, also known as CTSK is an enzyme which in humans is encoded by the CTSK gene.
Cathepsin K is also expressed in a significant fraction of human breast cancers, where it could contribute to tumor invasiveness.
Mutations in this gene are the cause of pycnodysostosis, an autosomal recessive disease characterized by osteosclerosis and short stature.
The first example of anti-Chido was studied both in Minneapolis and London in 1962.
Six other examples were identified in 1964 and 1965.
The antibody was officially reported in 1967 and named after one of the early patients.
Nine years later a similar and related antibody was described, ie. anti-Rodgers.
Initially it was believed that these might be white cell or HLA antibodies.
When the first several antibody producers were HLA typed, it was found that they all had the HLA-A1,B8 phenotype.
In addition, human plasma was able to inhibit both of these antibodies.
Finally, in 1978 the association became clear when it was shown that both Chido (Ch) and Rodgers (Rg) were epitopes carried on the fourth component of complement (C4).
The genes for C4 are closely linked to the HLA genes.
Includes serotypes H and O
Neutrophil gelatinase-associated lipocalin (NGAL), also known as oncogene 24p3 or lipocalin-2, is a protein that in humans is encoded by the LCN2 gene.
NGAL is involved in innate immunity by sequestrating iron that in turn limits bacterial growth.
It is expressed in neutrophils and in low levels in the kidney, prostate, and epithelia of the respiratory and alimentary tracts.
NGAL is used as a biomarker of kidney injury, which occurs about 30 percent of the time in heart failure patients.
The Lime is native to the Indo-Malayan region.
It is now grown in tropical regions almost throughout the world, particularly in Florida.
There are 2 main types of this small, lemon-shaped green citrus fruit: the acidic (the chief kinds being Persian limes and Mexican or Key limes), which is commercially grown, and the sweet, which is uncommon in North America.
Limes have been crossed with other types of citrus.
Lime may uncommonly induce symptoms of food allergy in sensitised individuals.
Allergic reactions are similar to those seen with other citrus fruit and consist mainly of contact dermatitis and contact urticaria.
Sphinganine is a naturally occurring, skin-identical sphingoid base.
Sphinganine is a blocker postlysosomal cholesterol transport by inhibition of low-density lipoprotein-induced esterification of cholesterol and cause unesterified cholesterol to accumulate in perinuclear vesicles.
Fecal occult blood refers to the presence of blood in stools (feces).
A fecal occult blood test is used to determine whether hidden (occult) blood is present in human feces.
Conventional fecal occult blood tests look for heme in the stools whereas newer tests look for globin.
Cancer antigen 15-3 (CA 15-3) is a mucin molecule and blood tumor marker used to gauge the response to treatment of invasive breast cancer.
CA 15-3 is encoded by the MUC1 gene and is a transmembrane glycoprotein.
CA 15-3 may contribute to the growth of breast tumors by preventing tumor cell cytolysis by cytotoxic T-cells or lymphokine-activated cells.
It may also block the proliferation of T-cells by causing apoptosis.
In addition, CA 15-3 has been found to be expressed over the entire cell in malignant breast tissue while normal breast tissue expresses CA 15-3 only on the apical side of the glanudular epithelial cells.
The presence of CA 15-3 is not unique to patients with breast cancer, but can also be found in patients with lung, colorectal, ovarian, and pancreatic cancers.
Patients with primary tumors tend to have lower levels of CA 15-3, though the average concentration and percentage of patients goes up as the tumor stage or size of the tumor increases.
While only a small number of recurrences of local or regional tumors result in an increased CA 15-3 level, over 70% of patients with remote metastasis have much higher CA 15-3 levels.
Oral glucose inhibits the release of somatotropin, or growth hormone.
In some disorders such as acromegaly, growth hormone increases in response to glucose.
Measuring growth hormone after administration of glucose is used as a screening test for acromegaly and to monitor the response to treatment.
The b-wave is an electroretinographic (ERG) measurement of the corneal-positive deflection, derived from the inner retina (predominantly Muller and ON-bipolar cells).
The hyperpolarization of the photoreceptor cells results in a decrease in the amount of neurotransmitter released, which subsequently leads to a depolarization of the post-synaptic bipolar cells.
The bipolar-cell depolarization increases the level of extracellular potassium, subsequently generating a transretinal current.
It is this transretinal current that depolarizes the radially oriented Muller cells and generates the corneal-positive deflection.
The b-wave amplitude is generally measured from the trough of the a-wave to the peak of the b-wave.
This wave is the most common component of the ERG used in clinical and experimental analysis of human retinal function.
The angle formed by Articulare, constructed Gonion and Menton
Bushy annual herb, leaves similar to fennel, fine and threadlike with clusters of small flowers.
Grown for seeds which resemble caraway seeds (see caraway).
Seeds also dried and ground into powder.
Has a pungent and savoury flavour, used to flavour curries and spicy dishes.
Proline is a secondary marker for pyruvate carboxylase deficiency and primary lactic acidemia (various types).
A glycoprotein important in the activation of the classical complement pathway.
It is cleaved by the activated component C1S into C4A and C4B.
The chemical compound 1,2-dichloroethane, commonly known by its old name of ethylene dichloride (EDC), is a chlorinated hydrocarbon, mainly used to produce vinyl chloride monomer (VCM, chloroethene), the major precursor for PVC production.
It is a colorless liquid with a chloroform-like odour.
1,2-Dichloroethane is also used generally as an intermediate for other organic chemical compounds, and as a solvent.
Glucan 1,4-alpha-glucosidase, also known as glucoamylase, is part of the maltase-glucoamylase (MGA) complex found in the mucosal brush border of the small intestine.
MGA plays a role in starch digestion, and more specifically, glucan 1,4-alpha-glucosidase successively hydrolyzes terminal-linked alpha-D-glucose residues from the non-reducing ends with release of beta-D-glucose.
Deficiency of intestinal glucan 1,4-alpha-glucosidase is associated with chronic diarrhea that responds to dietary starch elimination.
A species of ENTEROVIRUS associated with outbreaks of aseptic meningitis (MENINGITIS, ASEPTIC).
The SARS2 gene (seryl-tRNA synthetase 2, mitochondrial) is located on chromosome 19q13.2.
This gene encodes the mitochondrial seryl-tRNA synthethase precursor, a member of the class II tRNA synthetase family.
The mature enzyme catalyzes the ligation of Serine to tRNA(Ser) and participates in the biosynthesis of selenocysteinyl-tRNA(sec) in mitochondria.
The enzyme contains an N-terminal tRNA binding domain and a core catalytic domain.
It functions in a homodimeric form, which is stabilized by tRNA binding.
This gene is regulated by a bidirectional promoter that also controls the expression of mitochondrial ribosomal protein S12.
Both genes are within the critical interval for the autosomal dominant deafness locus DFNA4 and might be linked to this disease.
Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been identified for this gene.
Chlordiazepoxide is a benzodiazepine category drug, that blocks excitatory synaptic transmissions.
It is used to treat anxiety disorders, tension, and alcohol withdrawal.
Motor never and muscle function maybe be decreased in patients taking Chlordiazepoxide.
Desomorphine (dihydrodesoxymorphine, Permonid, crocodile, krokodil) is a derivative from morphine (an opioid) with powerful, fast-acting sedative and analgesic effects.
The endothelium is the thin layer of cells that line the interior surface of blood vessels, forming an interface between circulating blood in the lumen and the rest of the vessel wall.
Endothelial cells line the entire circulatory system, from the heart to the smallest capillary.
These cells reduce turbulence of the flow of blood allowing the fluid to be pumped farther
Benzophenone is the organic compound with the formula (C6H5)2CO, generally abbreviated Ph2CO.
Benzophenone is a widely used building block in organic chemistry, being the parent diarylketone.
Mutations in the LRRK2 (PARK8) gene are the most common known cause of autosomal dominant Parkinson disease (PD).
At least six (Asn1437His, Arg1441Cys, Arg1441Gly, Tyr1699Cys, Gly2019Ser, and Ile2020Thr) are considered to be truly disease-causing.
Among these, Gly2019Ser is the most common and Arg1441Cys is the second most common, but their prevalence varies across populations.
An alkaloid found in the seeds of STRYCHNOS NUX-VOMICA.
It is a competitive antagonist at glycine receptors and thus a convulsant.
It has been used as an analeptic, in the treatment of nonketotic hyperglycinemia and sleep apnea, and as a rat poison.
Ketones levels are used to diagnose diabetic ketoacidosis when diabetic patients, who cannot use sugar, will use fat instead, thus leading to the formation of ketones.
Polistes dominula, sometimes referred to as the European paper wasp,is one of the more common and well-known species of social wasps in Europe.
It is considered an invasive species in Canada and the United States.
Polyunsaturated fat also called (polyunsaturated fatty acid or PUFA) is one of the healthy dietary fats, along with monounsaturated fat.
Found in plant and animal foods, such as salmon, vegetable oils, and some nuts and seeds, eating moderate amounts of polyunsaturated (fat in place of saturated and trans fats can benefit your health.
Polyunsaturated fats can help lower your LDL (bad) cholesterol.
Polyunsaturated fats contain omega-3 and omega-6 fats.
These are essential fatty acids that the body needs for brain function and cell growth.
Our bodies do not make essential fatty acids, so you can only get them from food.
Some foods and oils with higher amounts of polyunsaturated fats include: walnuts, sunflower seeds, flax seeds or flax oil, fish, such as salmon, mackerel, herring, albacore tuna, and trout, corn oil and soybean oil.
The California walnut, also known as the California Black Walnut and the Southern California Black Walnut with a latin name of Juglans californica.
The plant varies in size from a large shrub to a tree that can grow to 25 meters and is endemic to California.
The nuts are not grown commercially to eat, but the plant used as rootstock for English walnut orchards worldwide.
It is also cultivated as an ornamental tree in California and Hawaii.
Daclatasvir (also called DCV, formerly called BMS-790052, tradename Daklinza) is a first-generation, direct-acting antiviral (DAA) is a zinc-binding and proline-rich hydrophilic phosphoprotein that plays a key role in hepatitis C virus RNA replication.
Daclatasvir is used along with other medications, such as sofosbuvir (tradename Solvadi), to treat certain types of chronic hepatitis C. Treatment stops the virus from multiplying and in turn prevents secondary diseases of hepatitis C, including cirrhosis and liver cancer.
Patients who have no detectable virus in the blood for a longer a period following treatment may be at lower risk of such secondary diseases.
Six different forms of hepatitis C viruses are now known, referred to as genotypes 1 to 6.
In clinical studies, the baseline NS5A polymorphism Y93H resulted in reduced rates of sustained virologic response in patients with HCV genotype 3 who were treated for 12 weeks with daclatasvir (plus sofosbuvir), especially in those patients with cirrhosis.
In addition, the high mutation rate of the HCV genome, combined with selective pressure from ongoing therapy, can lead to selection of additional HCV variants that are resistant to NS5A inhibitors.
DNA mismatch repair protein Msh3 (hMSH3) is part of the DNA mismatch repair system.
The protein forms a complex with MSH2 called MutS beta, which binds to DNA mismatches to begin the repair process.
Mutations in the MSH3 gene are associated with endometrial cancer and familial adenomatous polyposis 4.
A zinc-containing sialoglycoprotein that is used to study aminopeptidase activity in the pathogenesis of hypertension. .
Duration of blood flow after skin puncture.
This test is used as a measure of capillary and platelet function.
Ethion (C9H22O4P2S4) is an organophosphate insecticide.
Ethion is known to affect a nueral enzyme called acetylcholinesterase and prevent it from working.
However, the damage to nerves is found to be temporary, and all ethion poision patients make a complete recovery
Rearrangements or fusions involving ABL-class genes, including ABL1, ABL2 and PDGFRB, are associated with BCR-ABL1-like B-lymphoblastic leukemia/lymphoma (BCR-ABL1-like B-ALL), also known as Philadelphia-like (Ph-like) ALL.
Ph-like ALL is characterized as a neoplasm of B lymphoblasts having gene expression similar to BCR-ABL1+ B-ALL cases but lacking the BCR-ABL1 translocation.
Several methods are used to diagnose Ph-like ALL, including gene expression profiling (the "gold standard"), conventional karyotyping, fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH), reverse-transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR), and various sequencing techniques.
For positive FISH studies, additional fusion probe or RT-PCR testing is needed to identify translocation partners.
Patients with Ph-like ALL have a poor prognosis but respond well to targeted therapy when the genetic cause is identified.
Treatment options include tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKIs) and chemotherapy.
The CASR gene encodes a calcium-sensing receptor protein that is expressed in the parathyroid gland and binds extracellular calcium.
If hypercalcemia occurs, the receptor activates the parathyroid G-protein pathway, which results in increased intracellular calcium levels and suppression of PTH gene transcription, and also increases renal calcium excretion.
Inactivating CASR mutations result in various forms of hyperparathyroidism and hypercalcemia, while activating mutations lead to hypoparathyroidism and hypocalcemia.
Infection with the hepatitis delta virus (hepatitis delta-agent, HDV) is always seen in association with hepatitis B Virus (HBV) infection, where it may occur as a simultaneous acute infection or as an acute super-infection superimposed upon a case of chronic HBV hepatitis.
This is an RNA virus that requires the presence of HBV for viral replication to occur.
The serologic diagnosis of HDV depends upon the finding of HDV antigen and/or the presence of anti-HDV.
Patients will almost invariably have detectable hepatitis B surface antigen (HBsAg) and/or antibodies to hepatitis core antigen (anti-HBc) and hepatitis Be antigen (HBeAg).
In patients with acute co-infections, hepatitis D antigen (HDVAg) appears early after HBsAg does and disappears with convalescence.
Acute HDV infections are associated with anti-HDV IgM antibody and chronic cases usually only demonstrate IgG antibody.
Both antibodies may eventually disappear following convalescence.
The simultaneous assessment of anti-HBc IgM will help to differentiate co-infections (present) from super-infections (absent).
Information is from ARUP Laboratories.
Neurophysins are carrier proteins for the hormones generated in the hypothalamus and distributed from the posterior pituitary.
There are two types: Neurophysin I - oxytocin and Neurophysin II - vasopressin
A parasitic hemoflagellate of the subgenus Leishmania leishmania that infects man and rodents.
This taxonomic complex includes species which cause a disease called Oriental sore which is a form of cutaneous leishmaniasis (LEISHMANIASIS, CUTANEOUS) of the Old World.
The Horn beam is a sturdy deciduous tree superficially resembling Beech.
It is native to Britain and the temperate regions of Western, Central and Southern Europe, and it is found eastward as far as western Russia and the Ukraine.
Anecdotal evidence suggests that asthma, allergic rhinitis and allergic conjunctivitis are possible following exposure to pollen from this tree.
Lorazepam (marketed under the brand names Ativan®, Temesta®, Tavor®) is a drug which is a benzodiazepine derivative.
Pharmacologically, it is classified as a sedative -hypnotic, anxiolytic and anticonvulsant.
Lorazepam reduces anxiety, interferes with new memory formation, reduces agitation, induces sleep, treats seizures, treats nausea and vomiting, and relaxes muscles.
Lorazepam is used for the short-term treatment of anxiety, insomnia, acute seizures including status epilepticus, and sedation of hospitalized patients, as well as sedation of aggressive patients.
Due to tolerance and dependence, lorazepam is recommended for short-term use, up to two to four weeks only.
Among benzodiazepines, lorazepam has possible physical addiction potential.
Lorazepam also has misuse potential; the main types of misuse are for recreational purposes.
MET gene amplification studies evaluate the number of copies of the MET gene present in a single cell.
Amplification is determined based on the MET gene copy number and MET to centromere ratio.
Different criteria have been proposed for what constitutes amplification, including a MET to centromere ratio of >= 2, an average MET gene copy number >=5, and at least 15 gene copies in 10% of the tumor cell nuclei that were counted.
MET amplification is associated with worse prognosis in a variety of cancers, including non-small cell lung and gastroesophageal cancer.
The concrete oleoresin obtained from Pinus palustris Mill. (Pinaceae) and other species of Pinus.
It contains a volatile oil, to which its properties are due, and to which form it is generally used.
(Dorland, 28th ed) Turpentine is used as a solvent and an experimental irritant in biomedical research.
Turpentine toxicity is of medical interest.
The prototypical phenothiazine antipsychotic drug.
Like the other drugs in this class chlorpromazine's antipsychotic actions are thought to be due to long-term adaptation by the brain to blocking DOPAMINE RECEPTORS.
Chlorpromazine has several other actions and therapeutic uses, including as an antiemetic and in the treatment of intractable hiccup.
Veterinary Medicine: Porcine parainfluenza virus 1 (PPIV1) is an enveloped, non-segmented, single-stranded RNA virus found only in domestic pigs.
PPIV1 was first identified in Hong Kong in samples collected between 2008 and 2012.
In 2013, the virus was discovered in clinical specimens of pigs with respiratory disease in the United States.
There have been no known infections of PPIV1 in humans.
PPIV1 is transmitted in respiratory secretions and symptoms of infection include lethargy, coughing and sneezing with serous nasal discharge.
Pigs less than 21 days old are most likely to be symptomatic when infected.
Some asymptomatic pigs have tested positive for the virus.
PPIV1 has not been cultured in cells but it can be seen in respiratory tissue using in situ hybridization.
Experimental reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) and quantitative RT-PCR assays have been developed to detect PPIV1.
Assays that identify antibodies to PPIV1 include immunoprecipitation coupled with PCR detection (ICPD) and indirect enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay using a recombinant fusion (F) protein peptide (PPIV1 F ELISA).The hemagglutinin-neuraminidase (HN) receptor molecule is responsible for viral attachment to the cell.
The HN gene can be sequenced using RT-PCR.
There are currently no vaccines for PPIV1 available.
The SCN1A gene (sodium channel, voltage gated, type I alpha subunit) is located on chromosome 2q24.3.
The vertebrate sodium channel is a voltage-gated ion channel essential for the generation and propagation of action potentials, mainly in nerve and muscle.
Voltage-sensitive sodium channels are heteromeric complexes consisting of a large central pore-forming glycosylated alpha subunit, and two smaller auxiliary beta subunits.
This gene encodes the large alpha subunit, and mutations in this gene have been associated with several epilepsy, convulsion and migraine disorders.
Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants.
The RefSeq Project has decided to create four representative RefSeq records.
Three of the transcript variants are supported by experimental evidence and the fourth contains alternate 5' untranslated exons, the exact combination of which have not been experimentally confirmed for the full-length transcript.
Clostridium tetani is a bacterium of the genus Clostridium.
Like other Clostridium species, it is Gram-positive, resembling tennis rackets or drumsticks.
In 1884, the strychnine-like toxin of tetanus was isolated from free-living, anaerobic soil bacteria and shortly thereafter, in 1890, a vaccine was developed using tetanus toxoid.
Cockroaches are insects of the Order Blattodea.
There are roughly 3,500 species in 6 families.
Cockroaches exist worldwide, with the exception of the polar regions and in elevations above 2,000m (6,500ft).
The word cockroach derives from the Spanish cucaracha, meaning chafer, beetle.
The most well-known species are: the American cockroach, Periplaneta americana, German cockroach, Blattella germanica, and the Asian cockroach, Blattella asahinai.
Tropical cockroaches are often much bigger.
Extinct cockroaches such as the Carboniferous Archimylacris and the Permian Apthoroblattina were several times larger.
The pacemaker mode indicates which chamber is being paced and whether the pacing is asynchronous or demand.
Asynchronous pacing means that a stimulus is delivered at a specific rate regardless of any underlying electrical activity, and demand means that if electrical activity (depolarization) is sensed, then the pacemaker does not delivery the stimulus during that cycle.
Entamoeba bangladeshi is an enteric pathogen that may be aymptomatic or cause diarrhea.
Diagnosis is based on identification of cysts and trophozites in fecal samples.
Fusarium oxysporum, also referred to as Panama disease or Agent Green, is a fungus that causes Fusarium wilt disease in more than a hundred species of plants.
It does so by colonizing the water-conducting vessels (xylem) of the plant.
As a result of this blockage and breakdown of xylem, symptoms appear in plants such as leaf wilting, yellowing and eventually plant death.
A spice, which may result in allergy symptoms in sensitised individuals.
Saffron is native to the Mediterranean.
It is now also cultivated in India, Turkey, China, Italy and Greece, but Spain and Iran are the largest producer.
The Japanese spider crab, Macrocheira kaempferi, is a species of marine crab that lives in the waters around Japan.
It is the largest arthropod in the world in terms of leg span, reaching up to 3.8 metres (12 ft 6 in) and weighing up to 41 pounds (19 kg).
It is the subject of small-scale fishery.
B little g super little c antigens are members of the HLA Class I antigens and represent HLA-A28 (A68 or A69).
The B little g antigen group is designated as Bennett-Goodspeed antigens and are expressed on mature red blood cells (RBCs) and, like other HLA Class I antigens, are also expressed on platelets and the majority of nucleated cells.
In some patients, the Bg antigens are not expressed on the RBCs even though they are expressed on other cells.
Hemolytic transfusion reactions have rarely been attributed to Bg antibodies.
In addition, red cell survival has not been affected by Bg antibodies when patients receive HLA incompatible components.(AABB Technical Manual, 18th edition, pp 362, 480, 490)
Although genetically independent of the Rh system, the Landsteiner Wiener (LW) blood group antigen system is part of the Rh protein cluster and is expressed more strongly on D positive cells.
There are 2 antithetical alleles, LW^a and LW^b with 4 possible phenotypes: LW(a+b-), LW(a-b+), LW(a+b+), and LW(a-b-).(Schenkel-Brunner H. (2000)
In: Human Blood Groups.
Springer, Vienna) LW^a has much higher prevalence than LW^b in most populations.
Hemolytic disease of the newborn due to anti-LW is rare and mild when it does occur .
Elevated levels of 2-oxoisovalerate are associated with maple syrup disease, pyruvate dehydrogenase deficiciency, and lactic acidosis.
Slight decreases may occur with deficiencies of lipoic acid or thiamine.
(Information from: Kumps A, Duez P, Mardens Y. Metabolic, Nutritional, Iatrogenic, and Artifactual Sources of Urinary Organic Acids: A Comprehensive Table.
A plant species of the genus Urtica, family urticaceae, the roots of which have been used to treat prostatic hyperplasia.
After brief heating to remove a stinging after taste the leaves can be eaten.
Urtica dioica is also known as stinging nettle or common nettle.
A macrolide compound obtained from Streptomyces hygroscopicus.
It selectively blocks the transcriptional activation of cytokines thereby inhibiting cytokine production.
It is bioactive only when bound to immunophilins.
Sirolimus is a potent immunosuppressant and possesses both antifungal and antineoplastic properties.
It is marketed under the drug name Rapamune (Streptomyces hygroscopicus was first isloated in a soil sample from an Easter Island called "Rapa Nui" thus the name Rapamune).
The SLC25A20 gene (solute carrier family 25 member 20) is located on chromosome 3p21.31.
This gene product is one of several closely related mitochondrial-membrane carrier proteins that shuttle substrates between cytosol and the intramitochondrial matrix space.
This protein mediates the transport of acylcarnitines into mitochondrial matrix for their oxidation by the mitochondrial fatty acid-oxidation pathway.
Mutations in this gene are associated with carnitine-acylcarnitine translocase deficiency, which can cause a variety of pathological conditions such as hypoglycemia, cardiac arrest, hepatomegaly, hepatic dysfunction and muscle weakness, and is usually lethal in new born and infants.
The F gene is one of 10 genes in the human respiratory syncytial virus (RSV) genome and encodes the fusion glycoprotein.
Mycoplasma iowae is an avian mycoplasma associated with embryo mortality and reduced hatchability.
M. iowae is resistance to bile salts and many antimicrobials.
In turkeys, the organism is transmitted via eggs and can also spread laterally.
Successful eradication in some cases has been achieved by treating eggs with fluoroquinolones in addition to monitoring for infections and using stringent hygiene measures during artificial insemination.
The TYMP (thymidine phosphorylase) gene is located on chromosome 22 at position q13.33.
This gene encodes an angiogenic factor which promotes angiogenesis in vivo and stimulates the in vitro growth of a variety of endothelial cells.
It has a highly restricted target cell specificity acting only on endothelial cells.
Mutations in this gene have been associated with mitochondrial neurogastrointestinal encephalomyopathy.
Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants have been identified.
Heat- and storage-stable plasma protein that is activated by tissue thromboplastin to form factor VIIa in the extrinsic pathway of blood coagulation.
The activated form then catalyzes the activation of factor X to factor Xa.
Moxifloxacin is a bacteriacidal fluoroquinolone antibiotic that is effective against gram-positive and gram-negative organisms as well as other infectious agents, including Mycobacterium tuberculosis.
It is used to treat a broad range of infections, including pneumonia, multi-drug resistant tuberculosis, and endocarditis.
Moxifloxacin increases the risk of tendinitis and tendon rupture, and is not recommended for children under the age of 18.
Methylone, also known as "M1", 3,4-methylenedioxy-N-methylcathinone, bk-MDMA, is an entactogen and stimulant of the phenethylamine, amphetamine, and cathinone classes.
Insulin-like growth factor 1 (IGF-1) is a polypeptide protein hormone similar in molecular structure to insulin.
It plays an important role in childhood growth and continues to have anabolic effects in adults.
The APP gene codes for the amyloid precursor protein found in many tissues, including the brain and spinal cord.
More than 50 different mutations in the APP gene can cause early-onset Alzheimer disease, which begins before age 65.
These mutations are responsible for less than 10 percent of all early-onset cases of the disorder.
At least six mutations in the APP gene have been found to cause hereditary cerebral amyloid angiopathy, a condition characterized by stroke and a decline in intellectual function (dementia) that begins in mid-adulthood.
Normal adult human hemoglobin.
The globin moiety consists of two alpha and two beta chains.
Hermansky-Pudlak syndrome (HPS) is associated with bleeding due to platelet dysfunction, which manifests by an absence of platelet dense bodies.
Dense bodies are needed for the second phase of platelet aggregation, and in HPS, the granulophysin and CD63 components of dense bodies is lacking.
The high calcium content of dense bodies allows their visualization in unfixed, unstained whole mount preparations, and platelet examination for dense bodies by whole mount electron microscopy is the gold standard for diagnosing HPS.
Purine nucleoside phosphorylase (also known as PNPase) is an enzyme involved in purine metabolism.
PNP metabolizes adenosine into adenine, inosine into hypoxanthine, and guanosine into guanine, in each case creating ribose phosphate.
NP encodes the enzyme purine nucleoside phosphorylase that, together with adenosine deaminase (ADA), serves a key role in purine catabolism, referred to as the salvage pathway.
Mutations in ADA lead to an accumulation of (d)ATP, which inhibits ribonucleotide reductase, leading to a deficiency in (d)CTPs and (d)TTPs, which, in turn, induces apoptosis in T-lymphocytes and B-lymphocytes, leading to severe combined immunodeficiency (SCID).
PNP-deficient patients will have an immunodeficiency problem.
It affects only T-cells; B-cells are unaffected by the deficiency.
Trypanosoma brucei is a parasitic protist species that causes African trypanosomiasis (or sleeping sickness) in humans and nagana in animals in Africa.
There are 3 sub-species of T. brucei: T. b. brucei, T. b. gambiense and T. b. rhodesiense.
Cefodizime is a cephalosporin.
Pleospora betae is a plant pathogen
The fungal 18S rRNA gene is approximately 1900 base pairs.
It contains eight variable regions (V1-5 and V7-9) as well as one highly conserved region (V6).
The highly conserved region can be used in molecular assays to detect the presence of fungal pathogens, and the variable regions can be used to identify specific species as well as for phylogenetic analysis.
Red cells characterized by dysmorphic erythrocytes are characterized by an irregular outer cell membrane, and signal glomerular origin of the RBCs
Mivacurium chloride (formerly recognized as BW1090U81, BW B1090U or BW1090U) is a neuromuscular-blocking drug or skeletal muscle relaxant in the category of non-depolarizing neuromuscular-blocking drugs, used adjunctively in anesthesia to facilitate endotracheal intubation and to provide skeletal muscle relaxation during surgery or mechanical ventilation.
Crufomate is an organophosphate livestock insecticide that is poured or sprayed on cattle to eradicate grubs, lice, and horn flies.
The crufomate white crystals are a cholinesterase inhibitor that are toxic when ingested or absorbed into the body by inhaling its aerosol or directly through the skin.
Symptoms that can occur after crufomate has been ingested include dizziness, sweating, labored breathing, nausea, unconsciousness, vomiting, pupillary constriction, muscle cramp and excessive salivation.
If ingested, symptoms include abdominal cramps, diarrhea, nausea, vomiting, pupillary constriction, muscle cramps, and excessive salivation.
Exposure to crufomate can affect the nervous system causing convulsions and respiratory failure.
Crufomate is not characterized as a human carcinogen.
Somewhat toxic to birds, fish, and insects.
Hydroquinone, also benzene-1,4-diol or quinol, is an aromatic organic compound which is a type of phenol, having the chemical formula C6H4(OH)2.
Its chemical structure, shown in the table at right, has two hydroxyl groups bonded to a benzene ring in a para position.
It is a white granular solid at room temperature and pressure.
Peptide YY is a short (36-amino acid) protein released by cells in the ileum and colon in response to feeding.
In humans it appears to reduce appetite.
It is also known as PYY, Peptide Tyrosine Tyrosine, or Pancreatic Peptide YY3-36.
The SLC22A18 gene (solute carrier family 22, member 18) is located on chromosome 11p15.5.
This gene is one of several tumor-suppressing subtransferable fragments located in the imprinted gene domain of 11p15.5, an important tumor-suppressor gene region.
Alterations in this region have been associated with the Beckwith-Wiedemann syndrome, Wilms tumor, rhabdomyosarcoma, adrenocortical carcinoma, and lung, ovarian, and breast cancer.
This gene is imprinted, with preferential expression from the maternal allele.
Mutations in this gene have been found in Wilms' tumor and lung cancer.
This protein may act as a transporter of organic cations, and have a role in the transport of chloroquine and quinidine-related compounds in kidney.
Two alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding the same protein have been described.
Desaminotyrosine is a normal constituent of human urine.
A product of tyrosine metabolism; concentration in urine increases in patients with gastrointestinal diseases.(Dictionary of Organic Compounds)
It is considered also that may result from metabolism to phenolic acids by colonic bacteria.
The kaolin clotting time is an activated partial thromboplastin time test without any added phospholipid.
The test relies on residual cell membrane fragments and plasma lipids to provide a phospholipid surface for coagulation reactions.
The volume of lipids delivered to a patient intravenously.
A drug is a non-dietary substance taken with the intent to change the structure or fuction of the body.
Medically, drugs are used to diagnose, cure,mitigate, treat, or prevent disease or illness.
Drugs are also illicit substances that can lead to addiciton, habituation, or a marked changes in consciousness.
Low carnitene levels in skeletal muscle, liver, heart and kidneys result in decreased ability of these tissues to utilize long chain fatty acids as an energy source.
Low levels indicate muscle carnitene deficiency with muscle weakness, or secondary carnitene deficiency associated with renal failure, cirrhosis and many other defects.
Aconitic acid is an organic acid.
The two isomers are cis-aconitic acid and trans-aconitic acid.
The conjugate base of cis-aconitic acid, cis-aconitate is an intermediate in the isomerization of citrate to isocitrate in the citric acid cycle.
It is acted upon by the enzyme aconitase.
The smaller fragment generated from the cleavage of complement C3 by C3 CONVERTASE.
C3a, a 77-amino acid peptide, is a mediator of local inflammatory process.
It induces smooth MUSCLE CONTRACTION, and HISTAMINE RELEASE from MAST CELLS and LEUKOCYTES.
C3a is considered an anaphylatoxin along with COMPLEMENT C4A; COMPLEMENT C5A; and COMPLEMENT C5A, DES-ARGININE.
A monoclonal band (M-spike, monoclonal protein isotype) is often found in patients with monoclonal gammopathies.
Following protein electrophoresis, immunofixation is used to identify the immunoglobulin heavy chain and/or light chain.
Monoclonal peaks greater than 3 g/dL and IgG or IgA are seen in patients with Multiple Myeloma (MM).
A monoclonal peak greater than 3 g/dL and IgM is seen in patients with macroglobulinemia.
An alternate methodology for identifying the monoclonal protein isotype is MALDI-TOF, in which known information regarding the unique mass of each isotype is used to determine and quantify the isotype present in the patient sample based on the mass spectra generated from the sample.
Probes specific for MYEOV/IGH t(11;14)(q13.2;q32) are used to detect the reciprocal translocation commonly associated with multiple myeloma (MM) and resulting in an up-regulation of cyclin D1 (CCND1).
The MYEOV gene is 360 kb from the CCND1 gene, which is also involved chromosomal rearrangements resulting in human cancers.
Patients with MM who have t(11;14)(q13.2;q32) are predicted to have an aggressive clinical course.
A toxic dye, chemically related to trinitrophenol (picric acid), used in biochemical studies of oxidative processes where it uncouples oxidative phosphorylation.
It is also used as a metabolic stimulant.
TPMT (thiopurine methyltransferase) gene mutation determines a patient's ability to metabolize the thiopurine class of drugs.
The activity of TPMT is genetically regulated.
Nitric oxide is converted to nitrate (NO3-) and nitrite (NO2-), both inorganic ions that occur naturally in the soil, water and some foods.
Nitrates are relatively non-toxic but can become toxic when converted to nitrites either in food or in the digestive tract.
In animals, pigs are more susceptible to nitrite poisoning than cattle and sheep.
Pigs have been poisoned by drinking the condensed water from ventilating shafts in piggeries and after eating plaster board which had fallen into their pens after becoming soaked with this material.
Both feed and water consumption need to be considered when encountering nitrate toxicity problems.
The SCN5A gene (sodium channel, voltage gated, type V alpha subunit) is located on chromosome 3p21.
The protein encoded by this gene is an integral membrane protein and tetrodotoxin-resistant voltage-gated sodium channel subunit.
This protein is found primarily in cardiac muscle and is responsible for the initial upstroke of the action potential in an electrocardiogram.
Defects in this gene are a cause of long QT syndrome type 3 (LQT3), an autosomal dominant cardiac disease.
Alternative splicing results in several transcript variants encoding different isoforms.
A purine and a reaction intermediate in the metabolism of adenosine and in the formation of nucleic acids by the salvage pathway.
The SETBP1 gene (SET binding protein 1) is located on chromosome 18q12.3.
This gene encodes a protein which contains several motifs including a ski homology region and a SET-binding region in addition to three nuclear localization signals.
The encoded protein has been shown to bind the SET nuclear oncogene which is involved in DNA replication.
Mutations in this gene are associated with Schinzel-Giedion midface retraction syndrome.
Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
Velpatasvir (previously known as GS-5816) is an inhibitor of the hepatitis C virus (HCV) NS5A protein with antiviral activity across all HCV genotypes (1-6).
The combination of velpatasvir and sofosbuvir with or without ribavirin provides high rates of sustained virologic response for patients with chronic HCV.
Dimethylarginines are endogenous analogues of L-arginine.
N,N-dimethylarginine (also known as asymmetrical dimethylarginine or ADMA) and N,N'-dimethylarginine (symmetrical dimethylarginine or SDMA) both inhibit cellular L-arginine uptake, and ADMA also competitively inhibits nitric oxide (NO) synthases.
ADMA is predominantly degraded by the enzyme dimethylarginine dimethylaminohydrolase, while SDMA is primarily excreted by the kidney.
ADMA and NO play a pivotal role in endothelial dysfunction, and elevated ADMA levels may be associated with a higher risk of cardiovascular disease.
SDMA has not been associated with cardiovascular disease but correlates with both measured and estimated glomerular filtration rate and is a marker of renal function.
A qualitative judgement of the breastmilk or formula intake in relation to nutrient needs.
This term was created for, but not limited in use to, the HL7 Implementation Guide for CDA Release 2: Consolidated CDA Templates for Clinical Notes (US Realm) Draft Standard for Trial Use Release 2.1.
Anticoagulant rodenticides, such as brodifacoum, bromadiolone, coumafuryl, coumatetralyl, difenacoum, diphacinone, difethialone, and chlorophacinone, are effective pesticides for reducing pest rodent populations and associated damage.
The wide use of them has led to testing for suspected intoxication in both domestic animals and human beings in accidental and intentional cases.
Most human cases are related to accidental consumption by young children, intentional ingestion, or occupational exposure to these toxins.
Complexed PSA is the difference between Total and free PSA
Chlorpropamide testing is intended for use during the evaluation of suspected insulinoma characterized by hypoglycemia and increased plasma insulin concentration.
Chlorpropamide is a first-generation sulfonylurea drug.
Ethanolamine, also called 2-aminoethanol or monoethanolamine (often abbreviated as MEA), is an organic chemical compound which is both a primary amine (due to an amino group in its molecule) and a primary alcohol (due to a hydroxyl group).
Like other amines, monoethanolamine acts as a weak base.
Ethanolamine is a toxic flammable corrosive colorless viscous liquid with an odor similar to ammonia.
Ethanolamine is commonly called monoethanolamine or MEA to distinguish it from diethanolamine (DEA) and triethanolamine (TEA).
Monoethanolamine is produced by reacting ethylene oxide with ammonia.
Further treatment with ethylene oxide can yield DEA andor TEA.
Ethanolamine is the second most abundant head group for phospholipids.
Ethanolamine also refers to a class of antihistamines containing an ethyl-amine group attached to a diphenyl structure.
Examples of drugs within this class include diphenhydramine (Benadryl), phenyltoloxamine (Percogesic), and doxylamine (Unisom Sleep Tablets).
Phoma herbarum is a fungal plant pathogen.
3-Hydroxypropionic acid is a carboxylic acid, specifically a beta hydroxy acid.
It is an acidic viscous liquid with a pKa of 4.5.
It is very soluble in water, soluble in ethanol, and miscible with diethyl ether.
Upon distillation, it dehydrates to form acrylic acid.
The fractional excretion of potassium is a measure of the percentage of potassium excreted in the urine versus the potassium reabsorbed by the kidney.
A widely used local anesthetic agent.
Perphenazine is a typical antipsychotic drug.
Chemically, it is classified as a piperazinyl phenothiazine.
It has been in clinical use for decades.
Perphenazine is 10 to 15 times as potent as chlorpromazine ; that means perphenazine is a highly potent antipsychotic.
In equivalent doses it has approximately the same frequency and severity of early and late extrapyramidal side-effects compared to Haloperidol.
Diazepam (brand names Valium, Stesolid, Seduxen, Bosaurin, Diapam and Apozepam) is a benzodiazepine derivative, possessing anxiolytic, anticonvulsant, sedative, skeletal muscle relaxant, and amnestic properties.
This makes it a useful drug for treating anxiety, insomnia, seizures (including status epilepticus), alcohol withdrawal, benzodiazepine withdrawal, opiate withdrawal syndrome, Ménière's disease, restless legs syndrome, and muscle spasms.
It is also used before certain medical procedures (such as endoscopies) to reduce tension and anxiety, and in some surgical procedures to induce amnesia.
Common side effects include sleepiness and trouble with coordination.
Long term use can result in tolerance, dependence, and withdrawal upon dose reduction.
Diazepam is a core medicine in the World Health Organization 's Essential Drugs List, which is a list of minimum medical needs for a basic health care system.
Diazepam is one of the most frequently prescribed benzodiazepines.
All immunoglobulins contain two polypeptide chains: a long (heavy) and a short (light) chain.
The two chains interact via disulfide bonds.
There are two types of light chains, named kappa and lambda.
Serum free light chain (SFLC) testing, a kappa/lambda ratio and a protein electrophoresis test are done to help detect, diagnose and monitor plasma cell disorders (dyscrasias) including multiple myeloma and primary amyloidosis.
Normal readings are seen when there is a kappa/lambda ratio of approximately 0.26 to 1.65 and free light chains are present in the blood at low levels.
Increased kappa free light chains and an increased kappa/lambda ratio are present with plasma cell disorders that produce excess monoclonal kappa light chains.
The tests can also be used to monitor response to treatment.
An increase in serum free light chains along with an abnormal kappa/lambda ratio may indicate primary amyloidosis; biopsy of affected tissue is typically used for confirmation of diagnosis.
Herpes viruses may cause a wide variety of lesions.
Approximately 85% of primary genital HSV infections and 99% of recurrent disease are caused by HSV-2.
Immunocompromised patients are at higher risk for development of severe infections.
HSV infection causes expression of a beta-galactosidase "reporter gene.
Expression of this gene can be used to monitor HSV infection.
Information from LOINC partner 1 and Jacobs and DeMott Laboratory Test Handbook, 5th edition, DS Jacobs, WR DeMott and DK Oxley, 2001.
In chemistry, an amino acid is a molecule containing both amine and carboxyl functional groups.
These molecules are particularly important in biochemistry, where this term refers to alpha-amino acids with the general formula H2NCHRCOOH, where R is an organic substituent.
In the alpha amino acids, the amino and carboxylate groups are attached to the same carbon atom, which is called the α-carbon.
The various alpha amino acids differ in which side chain (R group) is attached to their alpha carbon.
They can vary in size from just a hydrogen atom in glycine through a methyl group in alanine to a large heterocyclic group in tryptophan.
The APOB gene encodes apoliprotein B, a primary protein component of low-density lipoprotein (LDL or "bad" cholesterol), very low-density lipoprotein (VLDL) and chylomicrons.
Apolipoprotein B has 2 forms: the liver produces the B-100 form, which includes a region that is recognized by the ApoB/E LDL receptor, and the small intestine produces B-48, which is cleaved from B-100 and does not include the receptor region.
Mutations in the APOB gene are associated with two disorders: familial ligand-defective apoB-100 hypercholesterolemia (FDB) and familial hypobetalipoproteinemia (FHBL).
FDB is associated with mutations in the APOB gene that affect the LDL receptor binding region.
The most common mutation known to be associated with FDB is p.Arg3500Gln.
Others include p.Arg3500Trp, p.Arg3531Cys, p.Arg3480Trp, and p.His3543Tyr.
FHBL is associated with mutations in the APOB gene that result in truncated forms of apolipoprotein B.
At least 50 different APOB mutations have been identified that are associated with FHBL.
Fibach E, Flow cytometric analysis of fetal hemoglobin in RBC and their precursors.
Bacillus anthracis lethal factor is one of the three components of the anthrax toxin produced by the bacterium Bacillus anthracis, which causes anthrax.
This protein acts as a zinc-dependent metalloprotease that, when combined with protective antigen (PA) and entering host cells, disrupts cellular signaling by inactivating mitogen-activated protein kinases (MAPKs), leading to cell death, particularly in immune cells like macrophages, and contributing to the overall pathogenic effects of anthrax infection.
Shrimp is considered to be a highly allergenic food, causing severe reactions, such as anaphylaxis.
Transferrin is a protein that binds to iron and carries it to the liver, spleen and bone marrow.
Testing for transferrin in stool can determine if bleeding is occurring anywhere in the gastrointestinal (GI) tract.
Bleeding may be due to early stage carcinoma and adenomatous polyps and can be detected in the stool by measuring intact heme, intact hemoglobin, heme-derived porphyrins and transferrin.
Tests that measure intact hemoglobin are sensitive only to lesions in the lower intestine since hemoglobin is easily broken down and any hemoglobin originating in the upper gastrointestinal tract is unlikely to be intact by the time it reaches the lower intestine.
Transferrin is more stable than hemoglobin and remains intact even when it originates in the upper intestinal tract.
mixture of 2 clones
Ofloxacin is a synthetic chemotherapeutic antibiotic of the fluoroquinolone drug class considered to be a second-generation fluoroquinolone.
The original brand, Floxin, has been discontinued by the manufacturer in the United States in 2009, though generic equivalents continue to be available.
Oral and I.V. Floxin is not licensed by the FDA for use in children due to the risk of serious reversible and irreversible injury to the musculoskeletal system.
Ofloxacin (and its derivatives) has also been associated with a few isolated reports of unexplained pediatric fatalities.
Children (those under 18) are also at an increased risk of bone, joint, or tendon toxicities.
In the adult population ofloxacin is limited to the treatment of proven serious and life threatening bacterial infections such as: Acute bacterial exacerbations of chronic bronchitis Community-acquired pneumonia Uncomplicated skin and skin structure infections Nongonococcal urethritis and cervicitis Mixed Infections of the urethra and cervix Acute pelvic inflammatory disease Uncomplicated cystitis Complicated urinary tract infections Prostatitis Acute, uncomplicated urethral and cervical gonorrhea Mycobacterial infections
Jujubes originated in China, where they have been cultivated for more than 4,000 years, and where there are over 400 cultivars.
The spiny trees travelled beyond Asia centuries ago and today are grown to some extent in Russia, northern Africa, southern Europe, the Middle East and the southwestern United States.
Anecdotal evidence suggests that Jujube may induce symptoms of food allergy such as urticaria, angioedema, rhinoconjunctivitis, dyspnoea, and wheezing in sensitised individuals; however, few studies have been reported to date
Emtricitabine is an antiretroviral drug used in the treatment of HIV.
Drug resistance reports assist with treatment decisions.
Amino acids are organic compounds that combine to form proteins.
Amino acids and proteins are the building blocks of life.
Amino acids are classified into essential and nonessential.
Essential amino acids cannot be made by the body and they must come from food.
The 9 essential amino acids are: histidine, isoleucine, leucine, lysine, methionine, phenylalanine, threonine, tryptophan, and valine.
Amphetamine (AMPH) is a drug that stimulates both the central and peripheral nervous systems and is used to treat attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder, narcolepsy and obesity.
AMPH increases extracellular monoamine neurotransmitters in the brain including dopamine, serotonin and norepinephrine.
AMPH promotes presynaptic release of the neurotransmitters rather than blocking their re-uptake.
Physiological responses to AMPH use include increased blood pressure, increased heart rate, increased body temperature, relaxed bronchial muscle and depressed appetite.
Abuse of AMPH can cause powerful psychological dependence, tolerance, mild physical dependence associated with tachycardia, restlessness, irritability, insomnia, personality changes and an intense form of chronic intoxication psychosis similar to schizophrenia.
Long-term users of AMPH can experience depression, impaired memory and motor skills most likely due to a drop in dopamine transporters and damage to dopaminergic and serotonergic neurons.
Excretion of AMPH is in the urine and the rate of elimination is dependent on the pH of the urine.
Urine with an alkaline pH has an excretion rate of 18-34 hours while that of acid urine is 7-14 hours.(Tietz Fundamentals of Clinical Chemistry and Molecular Diagnostics, Seventh Edition; Carl A. Burtis; David E. Bruns)
Isoxanthopterin is a pteridin present in plasma, urine, and other bodily fluids.
al. (1996) reported increased ratios of pterin to isoxanthopterin in patients with hereditary xanthinuria and molybdenum cofactor deficiency.
Isoxanthopterin and other pterines have been found to be significantly increased in cancer patients.
Pyrazinamide is a drug used to treat tuberculosis in afflicted patients.
The drug is largely bacteriostatic, but can be bacteriocidal on actively replicating tuberculosis bacteria.
Matrix metalloproteinases-9 (MMP-9) is a member of the gelatinase family, which are zinc-dependent endopeptidases that can break down any component of the extracellular matrix.
MMP-9 is expressed by leukocytes in severely injured livers and in hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC).
MMP-9 plays an important role in the progression of tumors by cleaving heat shock protein beta-1 (HSPB1) and releasing anti-angiogenic fragments.
MMP-9 secreted by HCC cells forecasts an aggressively invasive and metastatic form of cancer.
Mycobacterium avium subspecies paratuberculosis (MAP) is an obligate pathogenic bacterium in the genus Mycobacterium.
It is often abbreviated M. paratuberculosis or M. avium ssp.
It is the causative agent of Johne's disease, which affects ruminants such as cattle, and also perhaps the human disease Crohn's disease.
Recent studies have shown that MAP present in milk can survive pasteurization, which has raised human health concerns due to the widespread nature of MAP in modern dairy herds.
MAP survival during pasteurization is dependent on the D72C-value of the strains present and their concentration in milk.
It is heat resistant and is capable of sequestering itself inside white blood cells, which may contribute to its persistence in milk.
It has also been reported to survive chlorination in municipal water supplies.
Species of tapeworm in the genus TAENIA, that infects swine.
It is acquired by humans through the ingestion of cured or undercooked pork.
A bicyclic monoterpene ketone found widely in plant (primarily the camphor tree, Cinnamomum camphora).
Natural camphor is used topically as a skin antipruritic and as an anti-infective agent.
Lasalocid (brand names: Bovatec and Avatec) is an ionophore antibiotic obtained from Streptomyces lasaliensi.
It is used as a coccidiostat, especially in poultry.
Ionophore antibiotics have the potential to cause toxicosis either by excessive dose levels or when administered with other potentiating agents.
Taenia solium life cycle
Dehydroepiandrosterone sulfate (DHEAS) testing is used to evaluate adrenal function and to distinguish androgen secreting conditions that are caused by the adrenal glands from those that originate in the ovaries or testes.
DHEAS testing is performed to diagnose tumors in the cortex of the adrenal gland (adrenocortical tumors), adrenal cancers, and congenital adrenal hyperplasia or adult-onset adrenal hyperplasia and to separate these conditions from ovarian tumors and cancers.
Non-collagenous, calcium-binding glycoprotein of developing bone.
It links collagen to mineral in the bone matrix
The pupil reaction time is the time it takes for the pupil to constrict in response to light.
Factor II DNA analysis: a point mutation (G20210A) in the Factor II (prothrombin) gene is the second most common cause of inherited thrombosis.
The mutation substitutes a guanine with an adenine at nucleotide 20210.
Up to 20% of inherited thrombophilia is due to this mutation.
Incidence is 1-2% among Caucasians and 0.1% in African Americans.
Heterozygous carriers of this mutation have prothrombin levels 30% higher than normal and have an associated 3-fold increased risk for venous thrombosis.
The prothrombin is cleaved to thrombin which acts like a serine protease in the coagulation cascade.
This results in the production of fibrin and promotes clotting activity.
Mutation has also been reported in patients with idiopathic portal vein thrombosis, patients using oral contraceptives, and pregnant patients with placental abruptions and fetal growth restrictions.
Up to 40% of patients with Factor II mutation also carry the Factor V Leiden mutation.
MCAD deficiency is an inherited defect in fatty acid metabolism which can cause a Reyes'-like syndrome in children.
It has been weakly associated with the sudden infant death syndrome (SIDS).
Part of newborn screening.
Phenol, also known under an older name of carbolic acid, is a colorless crystalline solid with a typical sweet tarry odor.
Its chemical formula is C 6 H 5 O H and its structure is that of a hydroxyl group (-OH) bonded to a phenyl ring ; it is thus an aromatic compound.
The Zika virus (ZIKV) nonstructural protein 1 (NS1) is secreted by infected cells and is involved in immune evasion and pathogenesis.
While there is some structural similarity between ZIKV NS1 and NS1 from other flaviviruses, antibodies to ZIKV NS1 have been found to be relatively ZIKV-specific.
Zika virus (ZIKV) is a flavivirus transmitted primarily by the Aedes mosquito which was first identified in a sentinel monkey in the Zika forest in Uganda in 1947.
Since 2014 it has spread explosively in the Americas where it has infected hundreds of thousands of people.
About 80% of those infected are asymptomatic.
Common symptoms include fever, headache, rash, arthralgia and conjunctivitis.
Since the end of 2015, there has been an increase in ZIKV-associated cases of Guillain-Barre syndrome and a tremendous increase in cases of microcephaly in fetuses and newborns in Brazil, raising worldwide public health concern.
Recent predictions are that the mosquito species A. Albopictus, which can hibernate and survive cool temperatures, will carry ZIKV to more temperate areas of North America, Australia and Southern Europe.
It is still not clear whether ZIKV in humans increases viral titers enough to trigger a new cycle when an infected person is bitten by a naïve mosquito.
Direct human-to-human transmission has been documented to occur perinatally, sexually (primarily through semen), through breastfeeding, blood transfusion and through occupational transmission in the laboratory setting.
There are currently no specific anti-viral agents, vaccination or medical prophylaxis available.
ZIKV itself can be detected during the acute phase of infection (4-6 days) using PCR-based methods; alternatively, ZIKV-specific IgM antibodies or a significant titer increase of ZIKV-specific IgG is proof of acute infection.
Antibody titers should be performed using serum samples from the acute and convalescent stages with at least 2 weeks between blood draws.
Ustekinumab (UST) is a human immunoglobulin G1κ (IgG1κ) that binds sub-unit p40 of interleukin-12 (IL-12) and interleukin-23 (IL-23).
IL-12 and IL-23 are parts of the Th1 and Th17 inflammatory pathways, respectively, and are important in the development of psoriasis.
Psoriasis has pathogenic similarities to psoriatic arthritis (PsA) which is an inflammatory disorder that is often unresponsive to tumor necrosis factor (TNF) inhibitor therapy.
Also, many patients with PsA who initially respond well to TNF inhibitors eventually stop responding.
UST is not a TNF inhibitor and offers patients with PsA an alternative treatment which has been proven to be effective and safe for short-term use.
The safety for long-term use of UST still needs further study.
Asparagine (abbreviated ASN or N) is one of the 20 most common and yet non-essential amino acid.
It has carboxamide as the side chain 's functional group.
A reaction between asparagine and reducing sugars or reactive carbonyls produces acrylamide (acrylic amide) in food when heated to sufficient temperature.
These occur primarilly in baked goods such as french fries, potato chips, and roasted coffee.
Asparagine was first isolated in 1806 from asparagus juice, in which it is abundant--hence its name--becoming the first amino acid to be isolated.
The smell observed in the urine of some individuals after their consumption of asparagus is attributed to a byproduct of the metabolic breakdown of asparagine, asparagine-amino-succinic-acid monoamide.
Gamma aminobutyrate B receptor (GABABR) is a neural surface cell synaptic antigen and is associated with limbic encephalitis and orolingual dyskinesias.
Symptoms of limbic encephalitis include delirium, mood change, memory and personality disturbance and focal seizures of mesial temporal type with or without secondary generalization.
Antibodies against GABABR indicate the possibility of undiscovered small cell lung cancer or other neuroendocrine neoplasia.
Tyrosine is an amino acid commonly found in animal proteins.
It is not essential to the human diet, since it can be synthesized in the body from phenylalanine.
Tyrosine is a precursor of the adrenal hormones epinephrine and norepinephrine, as well as of the thyroid hormones, including thyroxine.
Melanin, the skin and hair pigment, is also derived from this amino acid.
High tyrosine foods include cheese, soybeans, beef, lamb, pork, fish, chicken, nuts, seeds, eggs, dairy, beans, and whole grains.
Phenylketonuria (PKU) is a disorder in which the enzyme that catalyzes the transformation of phenylalanine to tyrosine is not active.
Other defects in tyrosine metabolism include the rare hereditary disorder known as alkaptonuria.
Finely granular cytoplasmic fluorescence, primarily associated with Wegner's granulomatosis.
MDA5, more formally known as interferon-induced helicase C domain-containing protein 1, is an immune receptor for viral nucleic acids and plays a major role in activating antiviral responses, including the induction of type I interferons and proinflammatory cytokines.
Anti-MDA5 autoantibodies, also known as anti-CADM-140, are associated with autoimmune disorders including dermatomyositis and interstitial lung disease.
Anti-MDA5 autoantibodies are also found in a subset of patients with juvenile dermatomyositis (JDM) who have polyarthritis and ulcerative skin disease but milder muscle disease.
Anti-MDA5 assays may be useful during the work-up of patients with inflammatory disorders and may help guide treatment.
The MYOC gene (myocilin, trabecular meshwork inducible glucocorticoid response) is located on chromosome 1q23-q24.
MYOC encodes the protein myocilin, which is believed to have a role in cytoskeletal function.
MYOC is expressed in many occular tissues, including the trabecular meshwork, and was revealed to be the trabecular meshwork glucocorticoid-inducible response protein (TIGR).
The trabecular meshwork is a specialized eye tissue essential in regulating intraocular pressure, and mutations in MYOC have been identified as the cause of hereditary juvenile-onset open-angle glaucoma.
Methionine is an essential nonpolar hydrophobic amino acid.
It provides sulfur for other sulfur-containing compounds and is important in the transfer of methyl groups.
Methionine is important in cysteine, carnitine, and taurine synthesis by the transsulfuration pathway, lecithin production, and the synthesis of phosphatidylcholine and other phospholipids.(Information from Wikipedia 9/15/06).
Phosphine (IUPAC name: phosphane) is the compound with the chemical formula PH3.
It is a colorless, flammable, toxic gas.
Pure phosphine is odourless, but technical grade samples have a highly unpleasant odor like garlic or rotting fish, due to the presence of substituted phosphine and diphosphine (P2H4).
Phosphines are also a group of organophosphorus compounds with the formula R3P (R = organic derivative).
Organophosphines are important in catalysts where they complex to various metal ions; complexes derived from a chiral phosphine can catalyze reactions to give chiral products.
Basophils are granular white blood cells characterized by a pale-staining nucleus with 2 to 3 lobes and a cytoplasm containing coarse, dark-staining granules of variable size.
They represent 0.5-1% of circulating leukocytes and they are stained by basic dyes.
When activated, they release histamine, leukotrienes and a number of cytokines.
Cannabinol is derived from the Cannabis plant and is a metabolite of tetrahydrocannabinol (THC).
It possesses potential immunosuppressive and anti-inflammatory properties.
Cannabinol preferentially binds to the cannabinoid g-protein coupled receptor CB2 which is located on a number of immune cells including T-cells, B-cells, macrophages and dendritic cells.
When cannabinol binds to the CB2 receptor it can trigger apoptosis and inhibit the production of some cytokines making it useful as an immunosuppressant or anti-inflammatory drug.
Bordetella holmesii is a Gram-negative bacillus associated with bacteremia, endocarditis, and respiratory illness, mainly in immunocompromised patients.
B. holmesii can be detected by PCR-based methods targeting fumC, a housekeeping gene which encodes the fumarate hydratase class II protein.
S-Adenosylhomocysteine (SAH) is formed by the demethylation of S-adenosylmethionine (SAMe) and is rapidly metabolized to homocysteine.
The reaction of SAH to homocysteine is catalyzed by S-adenosylhomocysteine hydrolase and is reversible with the equilibrium favoring formation of SAH.
Therefore, increased levels of SAH may occur when the intracellular concentration of homocysteine increases.
Since SAH is known to inhibit methylation dependent reactions, the ratio of SAMe to SAH is often used as an index of methylation status.
Disturbances in the transmethylation pathway indicated by abnormal SAMe, SAH or their ratio have been reported in many neurodegenerative diseases, such as dementia, depression or Parkinson's disease.
Oxcarbazepine is an anticonvulsant used to treat epilepsy and sometimes bipolar disorder.
The metabolite of oxcarbazepine, 10-Hydroxycarbazepine, inhibits the repetitive neuronal firing and propagation of synaptic impulses associated with seizures by blocking voltage-gated sodium channels in the brain.
An antiarrhythmia agent that is particularly effective in ventricular arrhythmias.
It also has weak beta-blocking activity.
The drug is generally well tolerated.
An E. coli strain carrying a cloned cDNA encoding the Phleum pratense allergen Phl p 5b.
A phosphotransferase that catalyzes reversibly the phosphorylation of pyruvate to phosphoenolpyruvate in the presence of ATP.
It has four isozymes (L, R, M1, and M2).
Deficiency of the enzyme results in hemolytic anemia. .
Cocos nucifera is the Latin name.
The coconut is native to tropical eastern regions, but today it is also grown in the tropical parts of the United States, in Central and South America, and in Africa.
The largest producing countries are Mozamibique, Tanzania and Ghana.
It is regarded as a staple food in Asia.
No allergens from this plant have yet been characterised, but some allergens appear to be 55 kDa, 35 kDa and 36.5 kDa in size.
The 35 kDa Coconut protein was shown to be immunologically similar to Soy glycinin (in the legumin group of seed storage proteins).
In 2 patients allergic to Coconut, the clinical reactivity was reported to likely be due to cross-reacting IgE antibodies primarily directed against Walnut, the original clinical allergy reported, and most likely against a Walnut legumin-like protein.
There may be a weak association between Latex allergy and allergy to Coconut.
Protein testing is performed to evaluate and monitor liver and kidney function and to detect and diagnose early kidney damage and various other diseases.
Elevated protein levels may also be due to an infection, medication, vigorous exercise, or emotional or physical stress.
Body fluids contain many different proteins that serve diverse functions such as transport of nutrients, removal of toxins, control of metabolic processes, and defense against invaders.
Testing for protein levels may be done as part of a routine physical, a pregnancy workup, in cased of a suspected UTI, as part of a hospital admission, or to evaluate kidney function.
E-selectin, also known as CD62E, is a cell adhesion molecule expressed only on endothelial cells activated by cytokines.
Like other selectins, it plays an important part in inflammation.
Sesame (Sesamum indicum) is a flowering plant in the genus Sesamum cultivated for its edible seeds.
The exact origin of the species is unknown, although it is thought to have originated in Africa or the Middle East 4,000 years ago.
It is now grown world-wide.
It is an annual plant growing to 50-100 cm tall, with leaves (4-14 cm) on opposite sides; the leaves are broad (5 cm) at the base of the plant, but are progressively narrow to just 1 cm on the flowering stem.
The flowers are white to purple, tubular, 3-5 cm long, with a four-lobed mouth.
The word sesame comes from Latin sesamum.
Sesame is grown primarily for its oil-rich seeds, which come in a variety of colors.
Nicotinuric acid (Nicotinurate) is a metabolite of nicotinic acid and nicotinamide (Niacinamide).
The concentration of nicotinuric acid in plasma is largely variable, similar to concentrations of nicotinic acid and nicotinamide.
These metabolites are measured as part of therapeutic drug monitoring/toxcicological testing associated with niacin (Vitamin B3) supplementation.
Nicotinuric acid may also serve as a simple quantitative index of hepatic biotransformation of nicotinic acid.
The MMADHC gene (metabolism of cobalamin associated D) is located on chromosome 2q23.2.
This gene encodes a mitochondrial protein that is involved in an early step of vitamin B12 metabolism.
Vitamin B12 (cobalamin) is essential for normal development and survival in humans.
Mutations in this gene cause methylmalonic aciduria and homocystinuria type cblD (MMADHC), a disorder of cobalamin metabolism that is characterized by decreased levels of the coenzymes adenosylcobalamin and methylcobalamin.
Pseudogenes have been identified on chromosomes 11 and X.
An appropriate reference standard of the fluid intake needs for an individual patient.
This reference standard is then used for the development of the nutrition prescription.
The external, nonvascular layer of the skin.
It is made up, from within outward, of five layers of EPITHELIUM: (1) basal layer (stratum basale epidermidis); (2) spinous layer (stratum spinosum epidermidis); (3) granular layer (stratum granulosum epidermidis); (4) clear layer (stratum lucidum epidermidis); and (5) horny layer (stratum corneum epidermidis).
Cat-allergic patients with IgE antibodies to Fel d 1 have been shown also to react to the corresponding protein of ocelot, puma, serval, siberian tiger, lion, jaguar, and snow leopard.
A subgroup of cat-allergic patients also react to dogs and sometimes to other animals.
Serum albumin is the main common component.
Extensive cross-reactivity even occurs between albumins of distantly related species and subjects with IgE antibodies to cat albumin may also react to horse, cattle, pig, rodents, and fur animals like mink and fox.
However, great variability exists between patients and selective sensitivity to limited numbers of species occurs, indicating shared and specific epitopes.
Common and species-restricted epitopes have also been observed on the major cat and dog allergens Fel d 1 and Can f 1.
Allergy to cat dander and pork meat, also referred to as the pork/cat syndrome, was shown to be mediated by IgE antibodies recognizing cat and pig serum albumin.
In addition, other kinds of meat may be a risk for patients with this type of sensitivity, as indicated by a case with cat-specific IgE antibodies and exercise-induced anaphylaxis after eating pork or beef.
Latin Name: Morus alba.
Common name is White Mulberry, Silkworm Mulberry.
The Mulberry tree's origin are China, Japan, Thailand and Malaysia.
The tree is now found throughout the world, including the Eastern and Midwestern USA.
The fruit is an aggregate, 1-5 cm long, and is white, becoming pink, and purplish to nearly black.
Fruits may be eaten raw or cooked.
The wood is valued for sporting goods due to its elasticity and flexibility when steamed.
Mulberry pollens can induce asthma, allergic rhinitis and allergic conjunctivitis.
Psilocin (4-hydroxy-dimethyltryptamine, 4-HO-DMT), an aromatic compound, sometimes also (mis)spelled psilocine, psilocyn, or psilotsin, is a psychedelic (hallucinogenic) mushroom alkaloid.
It is found in most psychedelic mushrooms together with its phosphorylated counterpart psilocybin.
Psilocin is a Schedule I drug under the Convention on Psychotropic Substances.
The mind altering effects of psilocin are highly variable and subjective.
The effects typically last anywhere from 3 to 8 hours depending on certain variables (such as metabolism, food interaction), however the effects can seem to last much longer due to psilocin's ability to distort the perception of time.
A selective serotonin uptake inhibitor that is used in the treatment of depression.
Adipic acid is a fatty acid metabolite.
Elevated levels occur with fatty oxidation defects including Beta-oxidation defects(MAD,MCAD,SCAD,VLCAD, SCHAD, LCHAD/TFP), HMG-CoA lyase deficiency, systemic carnitine deficiency, succinic semialdehyde DH deficiency, CPT II deficiency, peroxisomal diseases, glycogen storage disorders I & II, lactic acidosis, and fructose intolerance.
Excessive intake of adipic acid-containing foods (such as Jell-O) and foods containing medium chain triglycerides (such as coconut oil) may also cause increased levels.
Isolated high values may be seen in patients with ADD, lethargy, and seizures.
(Information from: Kumps A,Duez P,Mardens Y. Metabolic, Nutritional, Iatrogenic, and Artifactual Sources of Urinary Organic Acids: A Comprehensive Table.
Vigabatrin is an antiepileptic drug that inhibits the catabolism of gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) by irreversibly inhibiting GABA transaminase.
It is an analog of GABA, but it is not a receptor agonist.
Vigabatrin is also used to treat seizures in succinic acid semialdehyde deficiency, which is an inborn neurotransmitter (gamma amino butyric acid) catabolism defect that causes mental retardation, hypotonia, seizures, speech disturbance, and ataxia through the accumulation of 4-hydroxybutyric acid.
Vigabatrin is sold under the brand name Sabril.
A species of gram-negative, aerobic, rod-shaped bacteria commonly isolated from clinical specimens (wound, burn, and urinary tract infections).
It is also found widely distributed in soil and water.
P. aeruginosa is a major agent of nosocomial infection.
JWH-073 is an analgesic chemical from the naphthoylindole family that acts as a partial agonist at both the CB1 and CB2 cannabinoid receptors.
It is somewhat selective for the CB1 subtype, with affinity at this subtype approximately 5x the affinity at CB2.
O-desmethyltramadol (M1) is an active metabolite of tramadol which is a narcotic analgesic used to treat severe pain.
Tramadol and M1 work synergistically to relieve pain.
M1 activates the opioid receptor responsible for the analgesic effect of tramadol.
The parent drug prevents reuptake of norepinephrine and serotonin which inhibits pain signal transmission in the spinal cord.
M1 metabolism is highly dependent upon CYP2D6 which influences the efficacy of pain relief experienced by the patient.
The predominant adverse side effects associated with tramadol use include nausea, vomiting, sweating, itching, constipation, headache and central nervous system stimulation.
Aldolase is an enzyme which catalyzes the aldol reaction.
It beaks down fructose 1,6-bisphosphate (F-1,6-BP) into glyceraldehyde 3-phosphate and dihydroxyacetone phosphate (DHAP), as part of glycolysis.
In mammalian aldolase the key catalytic amino acid residues involved in the reaction are lysine and tyrosine.
Tyrosine acts as an efficient hydrogen acceptor whereas the lysine covalently binds and stabilized the intermediates.
Many bacteria use two magnesium ions in place of the lysine.
HLA DRB3, 4 and 5 belong to the HLA class II beta chain paralogues that formed as a evolutionary duplication of HLA-DRB1.
The HLA-DRB5, HLA-DRB3, and HLA-DRB4 genes encode for the serological antigens DR51, DR52 and DR53, respectively.
While they exhibit fewer polymorphisms than HLA-DRB1, show moderate variability and are only present in a subset of individuals, antibody testing is routinely done as they are thought to play a role in transplant rejection
Thiamine pyrophosphate (TPP or ThPP), or thiamine diphosphate (ThDP), is a thiamine (vitamin B1) derivative which is produced by the enzyme thiamine pyrophosphatase.
Thiamine pyrophosphate is a coenzyme that is present in all living systems, in which it catalyzes several biochemical reactions.
It was first discovered as an essential nutrient (vitamin) in humans through its link with the peripheral nervous system disease Beriberi, which results from a deficiency of thiamine in the diet.
Gliclazide (brand names Diamicron, Glizid, Glyloc, Reclide, Glubitor-OD, and Clizid) and Gliquidone (brand name Glurenorm) are oral antidiabetic drugs, from the family of sulfonylureas.
They are indicated for treatment of diabetes mellitus type 2 and act to increase insulin release from pancreatic beta cells.
The analytical determination of the drug is necessary for the diagnosis of "factitious hypoglycemia".
The way to differentiate the possible causes of hypoglycemia (insulinoma, hypoglycemic surreptitious intake) during one of the episodes of hypoglycemia (spontaneous or produced during the fasting test) includes the determination of glucose, insulin, C-peptide, proinsulin, insulin antibodies and sulfonylureas in blood.
A species of trematode blood flukes belonging to the family Schistosomatidae whose distribution is confined to areas of the Far East.
The intermediate host is a snail.
It occurs in man and other mammals.
Rilpivirine (brand name Edurant) is a pharmaceutical drug, developed by Tibotec, for the treatment of HIV infection.
It is a second-generation non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitor (NNRTI) with higher potency, longer half-life and reduced side-effect profile compared with older NNRTIs, such as efavirenz.
The amount of tube feeding that is retained in the stomach, aspirated into a large volume syringe, then discarded.
Stenbolone is an anabolic steroid.
A histamine H1 antagonist used in the treatment of motion sickness, vertigo, and nausea during pregnancy and radiation sickness.
The RAI1 gene (retinoic acid induced 1) is located on chromosome 17p11.2.
This gene is located within the Smith-Magenis syndrome region on chromosome 17.
It is highly similar to its mouse counterpart and is expressed at high levels mainly in neuronal tissues.
The protein encoded by this gene includes a polymorphic polyglutamine tract in the N-terminal domain.
Expression of the mouse counterpart in neurons is induced by retinoic acid.
This gene is associated with both the severity of the phenotype and the response to medication in schizophrenic patients.
Indole-3-acetic acid, also known as IAA, is a heterocyclic compound that is a phytohormone called auxin.
This colorless solid is probably the most important plant auxin.
The molecule is derived from indole, containing a carboxymethyl group (acetic acid).
Polymorphic DNA markers are used to determine if twins (triples, etc.) are monozygotic (identical) or dizygotic (fraternal).
In some cases, labs may require DNA from the parents to ensure markers are informative and provide the most accurate results.
Genotypes derived from the analysis of the markers are compared between the siblings (and parents).
Any differences indicate dizygosity.
If siblings share the same genotypes, they are considered identical.
Zygosity testing is performed for several reasons, including determining genetic risk for an individual whose sibling is affected with a genetic disorder for which a specific genetic test is uninformative or not available, assessing risks prenatally when one fetus of multiples is known to be affected by a specific disorder, performing organ or bone marrow transplantation compatibility testing, evaluating twin-twin transfusion syndrome during pregnancy, and for general familial or parental interest.
Lactic acid is chiral and has two optical isomers.
One is known as L-(+)-lactic acid or (S)-lactic acid and the other, its mirror image, is D-(−)-lactic acid or (R)-lactic acid.
The L isomer is the biologic one.
Mixed apnea is a reduction of respiratory airflow with both a central (respiratory effort) and obstructive component.
The HBA1 gene (hemoglobin, alpha 1) is located on chromosome 16p13.3.
The human alpha globin gene cluster located on chromosome 16 spans about 30 kb and includes seven loci: 5'- zeta - pseudozeta - mu - pseudoalpha-1 - alpha-2 - alpha-1 - theta - 3'.
The alpha-2 (HBA2) and alpha-1 (HBA1) coding sequences are identical.
These genes differ slightly over the 5' untranslated regions and the introns, but they differ significantly over the 3' untranslated regions.
Two alpha chains plus two beta chains constitute HbA, which in normal adult life comprises about 97% of the total hemoglobin; alpha chains combine with delta chains to constitute HbA-2, which with HbF (fetal hemoglobin) makes up the remaining 3% of adult hemoglobin.
Alpha thalassemias result from deletions of each of the alpha genes as well as deletions of both HBA2 and HBA1; some nondeletion alpha thalassemias have also been reported.
Quinolinic acid is a dicarboxylic acid.
It may be prepared by the oxidation of quinoline, either electrochemically, or with acidic hydrogen peroxide.
Quinolinic acid is a downstream kynurenine pathway metabolite of tryptophan.
Quinolinic acid has a potent neurotoxic effect and involved in neurodegenerative processes in the brain, such as in AIDS dementia complex, Alzheimer's disease, Huntington's disease, amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, multiple sclerosis and Parkinson's disease.
Within the brain, quinolinic acid is only produced by activated microglia and macrophages.
There are more than 2000 varieties of plum cultivated throughout the world.
The round, smooth skinned fruits can be red, yellow, blue or green, P. domestica is usually a purple-black color and P. salicina, Japanese plum tends to be yellow to crimson.
In Canada and the US, plums are cultivated on a wide scale and dried into prunes.
Botanically, all prunes are plums.
Plum may induce symptoms of food allergy in sensitised individuals.
Oral allergy syndrome is the most often reported symptom to Plum.
A semisynthetic ampicillin-derived acylureido penicillin.
7-dehydrocholesterol helps to diagnosis of Smith-Lemli-Opitz syndrome by gas chromatography/mass spectrometry of 7-dehydrocholesterol.
The ELA2 gene (elastase, neutrophil expressed) gene is located on chromosome 19p13.3.
Elastases form a subfamily of serine proteases that hydrolyze many proteins in addition to elastin.
Humans have six elastase genes which encode the structurally similar proteins.
The product of this gene hydrolyzes proteins within specialized neutrophil lysosomes, called azurophil granules, as well as proteins of the extracellular matrix following the protein's release from activated neutrophils.
The enzyme may play a role in degenerative and inflammatory diseases by its proteolysis of collagen-IV and elastin of the extracellular matrix.
This protein degrades the outer membrane protein A (OmpA) of E. coli as well as the virulence factors of such bacteria as Shigella, Salmonella and Yersinia.
Mutations in this gene are associated with cyclic neutropenia and severe congenital neutropenia (SCN).
This gene is clustered with other serine protease gene family members, azurocidin 1 and proteinase 3 genes, at chromosome 19pter.
All 3 genes are expressed coordinately and their protein products are packaged together into azurophil granules during neutrophil differentiation.
Acylcarnitine analysis enables the diagnosis of many disorders of fatty acid oxidation and several organic acidurias, as relevant enzyme deficiencies cause the accumulation of specific acyl-CoAs.
Salicylcarnitine is present in patients treated with Aspirin (salicylic acid), likely at high doses.
A procollagen peptide contains an additional peptide sequence, termed the propeptide, at its amino and carboxy terminal ends.
Collagen types I, II, III, IV and V are synthesized as precursor molecules called procollagens.
Propeptides facilitate the winding of procollagen molecules into a triple-helix conformation within the endoplasmic reticulum.
These propeptides are then cleaved from the collagen triple helix molecule during its secretion, after which the collagens polymerize into extracellular collagen fibrils.
Thus, the amount of free propeptides directly correlates with collagen molecule synthesis.
Procollagen Type I C-peptide (PIP) has also been extensively referenced in correlation studies between collagen levels and certain health disorders such as bone disease, alcoholic liver disease, liver cirrhosis and cirrhosis (Borrmann type IV) adenocarcinoma of the stomach.
Aflatoxins are naturally-occurring mycotoxins that are produced by many species of Aspergillus, a fungus, most notably Aspergillus flavus and Aspergillus parasiticus.
At least 14 different aflatoxins are produced, including B1, B2, G1, G2, M1 (metabolite of B1) and M2 (metabolite of B2).
Aflatoxins, especially B1, are immunotoxic and carcinogenic to animals and humans.
These myotoxins are most commonly ingested, however B1 can permeate through the skin.
Stunted growth and delayed development in children has been associated with aflatoxin exposure.
Heat- and storage-labile plasma glycoprotein which accelerates the conversion of prothrombin to thrombin in blood coagulation.
Factor V accomplishes this by forming a complex with factor Xa, phospholipid, and calcium (prothrombinase complex).
Deficiency of factor V leads to Owren's disease.
A mold that may result in allergy symptoms in sensitized individuals.
Penicillium is the blue-green mold found on stale bread, fruits and nuts, and used for production of green and blue mold cheese.
Penicillium has long been recognised as one of the molds most often producing positive skin test reactions in allergic individuals.
Inhalation of Penicillium spores in quantities comparable with those encountered by natural exposure can induce both immediate and late asthma in sensitive persons.
Sensitivity to Penicillium bears no relationship to sensitivity to the antibiotic Penicillin.
The free androgen index is an estimate of physiologically active testosterone.
It is calculated as a molar ratio of total testosterone to sex hormone binding globulin (SHBG).
Example formula : (Total Testosterone/SHGB)x100
Telaprevir (VX-950), marketed under the brand names Incivek and Incivo, is a pharmaceutical drug for the treatment of hepatitis C.
It is a member of a class of antiviral drugs known as protease inhibitors.
Telaprevir is only indicated for use against hepatitis c genotype 1 viral infections and hasn't been proven to have an effect on or being safe when used for other genotypes of the virus.
N-acetyl-L-aspartate (NAA) normally occurs in high concentrations in the brain tissue, and its function is not well-understood.
An elevation of NAA in urine and plasma is a marker of Canavan disease, a rare genetic disorder characterized by hypotonia, severe cognitive delay, blindness, demyelination and leukodystrophy, and typically death by 18 months of life.
Canavan disease is caused by a mutation in the ASPA gene, which encodes aspartoacylase, the enzyme that metabolizes NAA.
Tissue alpha-L-fucosidase is an enzyme that in humans is encoded by the FUCA1 gene.
Alpha-Fucosidase is an enzyme that breaks down fucose.
Fucosidosis is an autosomal recessive lysosomal storage disease caused by defective alpha-L-fucosidase with accumulation of fucose in the tissues.
Different phenotypes include clinical features such as neurologic deterioration, growth retardation, visceromegaly, and seizures in a severe early form; coarse facial features, angiokeratoma corporis diffusum, spasticity and delayed psychomotor development in a longer surviving form; and an unusual spondylometaphyseoepiphyseal dysplasia in yet another form.
Anti-mitochondrial antibodies (AMA) are autoantibodies that formed against mitochondria, primarily those in cells located in the liver.
The presence of AMA in the blood or serum is associated with primary biliary cirrhosis (PBC), which causes scarring of liver tissue confined primarily to the bile duct drainage system.
AMA is present in about 95% of cases of PBC.
A species of the genus Yersinia, isolated from both man and animal.
It is a frequent cause of bacterial gastroenteritis in children.
The serum-pleural effusion albumin gradient is measured to determine the differential diagnosis of exudates and transudates with the greater difference indicating transudates.
Paclitaxel is a mitotic inhibitor used in cancer chemotherapy.
It was isolated it from the bark of the Pacific Yew tree, Taxus brevifolia and named it 'taxol'.
When it was developed the generic name was changed to 'paclitaxel' and compound is sold under the trademark 'TAXOL'.
In this formulation, paclitaxel is dissolved in Cremophor EL and ethanol, as a delivery agent.
A newer formulation, in which paclitaxel is bound to albumin, is sold under the trademark Abraxane.
Paclitaxel is now used to treat patients with lung, ovarian, breast cancer, head and neck cancer, and advanced forms of Kaposi's sarcoma.
Paclitaxel is also used for the prevention of restenosis.
The LAMB3 gene (laminin subunit beta 3) is located on chromosome 1q32.
The product encoded by this gene is a laminin that belongs to a family of basement membrane proteins.
This protein is a beta subunit laminin, which together with an alpha and a gamma subunit, forms laminin-5.
Mutations in this gene cause epidermolysis bullosa junctional Herlitz type, and generalized atrophic benign epidermolysis bullosa, diseases that are characterized by blistering of the skin.
Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants that encode the same protein have been found for this gene.
Risperidone (Belivon®, Rispen®, Risperdal®) is an atypical antipsychotic medication mostly used to treat delusional psychosis (e.g. schizophrenia).
It is also used to treat some forms of bipolar disorder, psychotic depression, Tourette syndrome, and autistic spectrum disorders.
Risperidone is a dopamine antagonist possessing antiserotonergic, antiadrenergic and antihistaminergic properties.
Side effects of risperidone include significant weight gain and metabolic problems, as well as tardive dyskinesia and neuroleptic malignant syndrome.
Risperidone and other antipsychotics also increase the risk of death in patients with dementia.
The major active metabolite of Risperidone is 9-hydroxyrisperidone, which has similar pharmacodynamics to risperidone and remains in the body for much longer.
It has also been developed as an antipsychotic and is known as paliperidone.
Arbekacin (INN) is a semisynthetic aminoglycoside antibiotic.
It is primarily used for the treatment of infections caused by multi-resistant bacteria including methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA).
Arbekacin was originally synthesized from dibekacin in 1973.
It has been registered and marketed in Japan since 1990 under the trade name Habekacin.
Arbekacin is no longer covered by patent and generic versions of the drug are also available under such trade names as Decontasin and Blubatosine.
Gamma-Tocopherol is one of the chemical compounds that is vitamin E. As a food additive, it has E number E308.
The presence of antibodies to gliadin peptide and tissue transglutaminase can be used in conjunction with clinical findings and other lab tests to aid in the diagnosis of IgA sufficient and IgA deficient celiac disease.
Antibodies to deamidated gliadin peptide and tissue transglutaminase are specific to Celiac Disease while antibodies to gliadin are present in patients with and without gastrointestinal manifestations and are serological evidence of gluten sensitivity.
The screening starts with testing for IgA and IgG antibodies to deamidated gliadin peptide (DGP) and tissue transglutaminase (tTG) that allows for simultaneous detection for all four types of antibodies in one test (tTG/DGP screen).
This step will aid in the diagnosis of gluten-sensitive enteropathies including celiac disease.
Antibodies to DGP and tTG are highly specific and sensitive for those conditions When the result is positive, testing stops.
When result is negative, testing will reflex to a second step.
The GLA gene (galactosidase, alpha) is located on chromosome Xq22.
This gene encodes a homodimeric glycoprotein that hydrolyses the terminal alpha-galactosyl moieties from glycolipids and glycoproteins.
This enzyme predominantly hydrolyzes ceramide trihexoside, and it can catalyze the hydrolysis of melibiose into galactose and glucose.
A variety of mutations in this gene affect the synthesis, processing, and stability of this enzyme, which causes Fabry disease, a rare lysosomal storage disorder that results from a failure to catabolize alpha-D-galactosyl glycolipid moieties.
Epithelial casts are composed of epithelial cells from the renal tubule lining.
The presence of epithelial casts in urine reflects damage to tubule cells in the kidney.
They are associated with acute tubular necrosis, viral disease such as cytomegalovirus, kidney transplant rejection and exposure to nephrotoxic substances such as mercury and ethylene glycol.
A selective histamine H1-receptor antagonist devoid of central nervous system depressant activity.
The drug is used in the treatment of seasonal allergic rhinitis, asthma, allergic conjunctivitis, and chronic idiopathic urticaria.
Desmosomes, Greek for 'fastening bodies', are the adhesive connections between cells in tissues that are mechanically stressed during normal function such as the myocardium, bladder, gastrointestinal mucosa and skin.
The strong adhesive quality of desmosomes enables them to be differentiated from other intercellular junctions.
When the adhesive property of desmosomes fails disease processes such as pemphigus vulgaris can develop.
The shift between high and low adhesion is controlled by protein kinase C. Desmosomes also regulate cell proliferation, differentiation and morphogenesis by sending signals to molecules.
The T184G mutation is associated with Entecvir resistance
A 38-kDa mitogen-activated protein kinase that is abundantly expressed in a broad variety of cell types.
It is involved in the regulation of cellular stress responses as well as the control of proliferation and survival of many cell types.
The kinase activity of the enzyme is inhibited by the pyridinyl-imidazole compound SB 203580.
Trimeperidine is an opioid analgesic that is an analogue of prodine.
Trimeperidine has four structural isomers, of which two are active, the γ isomer trimeperidine, and the β isomer isopromedol.
It is around half the potency of morphine as an analgesic, and has been widely used for the treatment of pain.
Trimeperidine produces similar effects to other opioids, such as analgesia and sedation, along with side effects such as nausea, itching, vomiting and respiratory depression which may be harmful or fatal.
Boron trifluoride is the chemical compound with the formula BF3.
This pungent colorless toxic gas forms white fumes in moist air.
It is a useful Lewis acid and a versatile building block for other boron compounds.
The basement membrane is a thin sheet of fibers that underlies the epithelium, which lines the cavities and surfaces of organs including skin, or the endothelium, which lines the interior surface of blood vessels.
The primary function of the basement membrane is to anchor down the epithelium to its loose connective tissue underneath.
This is achieved by cell-matrix adhesions through substrate adhesion molecules.
A group of diseases stemming from improper function of basement membrane zone are united under the name epidermolysis bullosa.
Sensitization to moth has been shown to be quite common.
It seems to be mostly an occupational allergen.
Allergen-exposure can occur at moth breeding (rearing) industries for pest control and as a contaminating factor in flour and cereals.
The amount of infant formula consumed.
Suspected organism is a public health laboratory, ask-at-order entry question that identifies the suspected organism to inform testing protocol, such as what test begins a testing algorithm.
Flax is an annual, 0.3-1 m high, wiry, more or less branching plant with small, unstalked, dark or grayish-green leaves.
The flowers are borne on the ends of the stalks.
Each flower produces a round capsule in which 1 to 10 seeds develop.
There are different cultivars for the production of Linseed oil and flax.
Linseed plants are shorter, and their flowers are commonly bright blue, less commonly pale blue or white, while most flax cultivars bear white flowers.
Butanol or butyl alcohol can refer to any of the four isomeric alcohols of formula C4H9OH: n-Butanol, butan-1-ol, 1-butanol, n-butyl alcohol; Isobutanol, 2-methylpropan-1-ol, isobutyl alcohol; sec-Butanol, butan-2-ol, 2-butanol, sec-butyl alcohol; tert-Butanol, 2-methylpropan-2-ol, tert-butyl alcohol.
Recombinant non-glycosylated protein produced in an E. coli strain carrying a cloned cDNA encoding Betula verrucosa allergen Bet v 1.
Bet v 4, a calcium-binding protein, is a minor allergen in birch pollen that reacts with IgE antibodies from approximately 10-20% of pollen-sensitised subjects
The number of cycles remaining, including the current cycle.
Used for devices such as a nebulizer machine.
The BPGM gene (bisphosphoglycerate mutase) is located on chromosome 7q33.
2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) is a small molecule found at high concentrations in red blood cells where it binds to and decreases the oxygen affinity of hemoglobin.
This gene encodes a multifunctional enzyme that catalyzes 2,3-DPG synthesis via its synthetase activity, and 2,3-DPG degradation via its phosphatase activity.
The enzyme also has phosphoglycerate phosphomutase activity.
Deficiency of this enzyme increases the affinity of cells for oxygen.
Mutations in this gene result in hemolytic anemia.
Multiple alternatively spliced variants, encoding the same protein, have been identified.
Found on Monocytes and Granulocytes.
Associated with Hairy cell leukemia; Marginal zone lymphoma; some other B-cell neoplasms; some AML
Malathion is an organophosphate insecticide that poisons sucking and chewing insects on fruits and vegetables, mosquitoes, flies, household insects, animal parasites, and head and body lice.
It is classified as slightly toxic and is rapidly absorbed through the gastrointestinal tract, skin, mucous membranes, and lungs.
Symptoms of acute exposure in humans include nausea, headache, tightness in the chest, unconsciousness, and convulsions.
Malathion is moderately toxic to birds and highly toxic to aquatic invertebrates, aquatic stages of amphibians, and to honey bees.
Malathion is rapidly broken down in soil and is not expected to bioaccumulate in the environment.
Bis(chloromethyl) ether is an organic compound with the chemical formula (CH2Cl)2O. It is one of the chloroalkyl ethers.
This colorless liquid is used for chloromethylation of aromatic substrates.
It is produced industrially from paraformaldehyde and a mixture of chlorosulfonic acid and sulfuric acid.
Cod is the common name for the genus Gadus of fish, belonging to the family Gadidae.
It is a popular food fish with a mild flavor, low fat content, and a dense white flesh that flakes easily.
Cod livers are processed to make cod liver oil, an important source of Vitamin A, Vitamin D and omega-3 fatty acids (EPA and DHA).
In the United Kingdom, cod is the one of the most common kind of fish to be found in fish and chips, along with Haddock and Plaice.
Phorate is an organophosphate insecticide and acaricide that is used to control sucking and chewing insects, leafhoppers, leafminers, mites, nematodes, and rootworms.
It is applied to pine forests, field crops that include corn, cotton, coffee, and ornamental, herbaceous plants, and bulbs.
Phorate is among the most poisonous insecticides in use and is classified as a Restricted Use Pesticide (RUP) that can only be applied by certified applicators.
Symptoms of toxicity after acute oral exposure include blurred vision, headache, an inability to concentrate, fatigue, nausea, diarrhea, irregular heartbeat and respiration rates, tremors, excessive sweating, confusion, and convulsions.
Extremely high doses of phorate can lead to death resulting from respiratory arrest or lung constrictions.
Like other organophosphate insecticides, phorate is a cholinesterase inhibitor.
Cholinesterase is an essential enzyme for nervous system function.
Chronic exposure to phorate has resulted in slow thinking, memory defects, irritability, delayed reaction time, and anxiety.
There is no evidence that phorate causes gene mutations or carcinogenicity.
It is highly toxic to birds, freshwater fish, and aquatic invertebrates.
Sulbactam is a molecule which is given in combination with beta-lactam antibiotics to overcome beta-lactamase, an enzyme produced by bacteria that destroys the antibiotics.
Sulbactam is an irreversible inhibitor of beta-lactamase; it binds the enzyme and does not allow it to interact with the antibiotic.
Sulbactam is able to inhibit the most common forms of beta-lactamase but is not able to interact with the ampC cephalosporinase.
Thus, it confers little protection against bacteria such as Pseudomonas aeruginosa, Citrobacter, Enterobacter, and Serratia, which often express this gene.
In the United States, sulbactam is combined to form cefoperazonesulbactam and ampicillinsulbactam.
Marbofloxacin is a potent antibiotic of the 3rd generation fluoroquinolone group.
It is used in veterinary medicine under the trade names Marbocyl and Zeniquin.
Marbofloxacin is a quinolone, and acts by inhibiting bacterial DNA replication.
It is effective against enterobacteria, Pasteurella, Pseudomonas and staphylococci.
Marbofloxacin can be used both orally and topically.
It is particularly used for infections of the skin, respiratory system and mammary glands, as well as with urinary tract infections in dogs and cats.
Found on all leukocytes Associated with some B-cell neoplasms Absent in leukocyte adhesion deficiency (LAD)
After a menstrual period ends, the external os is blocked by mucus that is thick and acidic.
This "infertile" mucus blocks spermatozoa from entering the uterus.
For several days around the time of ovulation, "fertile" types of mucus are produced: they have a higher water content, are less acidic, and have a ferning pattern that helps guide spermatozoa through the cervix.
This ferning is a branching pattern seen in the mucus when observed with low magnification.
Trichoderma viride can be ranked as one of the most widely distributed of all soil fungi.
It appears in all investigations of habitats in the extreme north, in alpine areas as well as in numerous analyses from tropical regions.
There are many references for a wide range of forests, grasslands and cultivated soils.
It can grow on other fungi, is commonly found on fallen timber and on tapestry, in moist dwellings and often isolated in kitchens, where it grows on unglazed ceramics.
Trichoderma can cause problems in the industrial cultivation of mushrooms and also tulip bulbs may frequently be infected.
Anecdotal evidence suggests that T. viride may induce symptoms of asthma and hypersensitivity pneumonitis (HP) in sensitised individuals.
(17) However, few studies have been reported to date.
Lung cancer has the highest mortality of all cancers across the world.
Survival rates are much improved if the cancer is diagnosed and treated before the malignant cells have metastasized.
Patients diagnosed with stage 1 lung cancer experience a 5-year survival rate of 52% which increases to 87.5% if platinum-based chemotherapy is part of the treatment.
While computed tomography (CT) scans are the gold standard for diagnosing lung cancer, CT has a 50% rate of false positives and, subsequently, a large number of unnecessary follow-up treatments.
An immunoassay has been developed that measures autoantibodies to lung cancer related antigens in the peripheral blood and may help lower the false positive rates of CT scans.
These antibodies include CAGE, GBU4-5, NY-ESO-1, p53, SOX-2, MAGE A4, and HuD and one or more of them are present in 40% of patients at the time lung cancer is diagnosed.
Which antibodies are positive may in the future provide a clue to what subtype of lung cancer the patient has developed.
Ongoing studies are investigating the utility of the antibodies being used as biomarkers for lung cancer in high risk asymptomatic patients.
There is also research investigating the changes in an individual's lung cancer antibody profile from their baseline values to predict early lung cancer development.
Regurgitation (also known as backflow) is a heart valve problem where, if a valve doesn't close tightly, blood leaks back into the chambers rather than flowing forward through the heart or into an artery.
Regurgitation, especially that of the mitral valve, is often due to prolapse, which is when the leaflets of the valve flop or bulge back into the heart chamber during systole.
The degree of regurgitation is associated with the extent of clinical symptoms.
CD 34+ cells can regenerate the bone marrow after transplant.
Enzyme in vaginal fluid which is produced by bacterial pathogens such as Gardneralla vaginalis, Bacteroides spp., Prevotella spp, and Mobiluncus spp.
The test is used in women suspected of having a bacterial vaginosis (BV) infection.
Cysteic acid is an intermediate in cysteine metabolism.
Herring is eaten raw, cooked, pickled, fried or smoked.
Canned "sardines" may sometimes be herrings.
Specific IgE-antibodies to herring have been shown in several studies of patients with atopic dermatitis, asthma and other symptoms.
Alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazole propionate (AMPA) receptor 1 (AMPAR1) and AMPA receptor 2 (AMPAR2) antibodies target the AMPA receptor, an ionotropic glutamate receptor and key excitatory neurotransmitter.
AMPA receptors are comprised of different combinations of four glutamate receptor subunits called GluA1-GluA4 (also known as GluR1-GluR4 and GluR-A to GluR-D).
They are vital for brain development and function, such as memory and cognitive development.
Detection of antineuronal autoantibodies against AMPA receptors aids in the diagnosis of autoimmune encephalopathies, especially limbic encephalitis, and related conditions.
The presence of AMPA antibodies may also indicate an undiscovered tumor in the thymus, lung or breast.
The neurological symptoms associated with AMPA receptor 1 antibodies include altered mental status, convulsions, memory loss amnesia, auditory hallucinations, limbic encephalitis, abnormal behavior, schizophrenia, dizziness and hyperthermia.
The neurological symptoms associated with AMPA receptor 2 antibodies include seizures, short-term memory loss, limbic encephalitis, altered mental status, chorea and facial dyskinesia.
Prostate cancer gene 3 (PCA3) is strongly expressed in 95% of primary prostate cancer specimens and in prostate cancer metastasis.
PCA3 noninvasive molecular amplification assay detects and quantifies both PCA3 and PSA mRNA levels, providing a PCA3/PSA ratio score that can assist in determining whether a patient is at increased risk for developing prostate cancer.
Patients positive for PCA3 have PCA3 scores greater than 35 and are at increased risk for prostate cancer.
PCA3 and PSA mRNA are isolated from urine specimens and amplified by transcription mediated amplification (TMA).
Detection is achieved by hybridization protection assay (HPA).
PCA3 and PSA mRNAs are quantified and the PCA3 Score is determined (PCA3 Score = / x1000).
Bone age is the measurement of a child's physical maturity using measurements of the skeletal system.
Typically, bone age is measured in a child under 18 using an x-ray of the hand and wrist.
Once a child is 18 or older, measurements using an x-ray of the clavicle is required.
Dental age can also be used to determine bone age and provides additional information regarding the maturity of the skeletal system as a whole.
Ambrosia ambrosioides, also known as canyon ragweed or chicura is a ragweed found in the deserts of northern Mexico and ranging into the southern half of Arizona.
Taurine (Latin taurus for bull, as it was first isolated from ox (Bos taurus) bile in 1827 by German scientists Friedrich Tiedemann and Leopold Gmelin) or 2-aminoethanesulfonic acid is an acidic chemical substance found in high abundance in the tissues of many animals (metazoa), especially sea animals.
Taurine is also found in plants, fungi, and some bacteria, but in far less quantity.
Taurine is a derivative of the sulphur-containing (sulfhydryl) amino acid, cysteine.
Although it is often called an amino acid, even in scientific literature, it lacks a carboxyl group and therefore does not qualify as an amino acid.
It does contain a sulfonate group and may be called an amino sulfonic acid.
Small polypeptides have been identified which contain taurine but to date no tRNA synthetase has been identified that specifically recognizes taurine.
The protease gene and the reverse transcriptase gene of the viral genome are sequenced and mutations identified.
Mutations at codons thought to be associated with Non-NRTI drug resistance are analyzed and reported using drug resistance rules-based algorithms.
Information from ARUP Laboratories.
Macadamia nuts are the fruit of an Australian tropical evergreen tree, and are also known as Queensland or Australian nut.
The tree was exported to Hawaii in the 1890's as a source of shade but subsequently became a crop.
It is also grown in warm Mediterranean areas, in the southern USA and in South Africa.
Macadamia nut, although not as common a food as many other tree nuts, may occasionally cause serious allergic reactions in sensitised individuals.
Hepatocyte growth factor receptor (HGFR, also known as mesenchymal-epithelial transition (MET or c-MET]) is a transmembrane tyrosine kinase receptor that transduces signals from the extracellular matrix into the cytoplasm by binding to hepatocyte growth factor/HGF ligand.
The HGFR is a product of the MET gene and is important to oncogenesis and normal cellular function.
It regulates many physiological processes including proliferation, scattering, morphogenesis and survival.
The HGFR can be overexpressed in epithelial cancers, such as lung cancer.
The overexpression of c-MET is thought to allow for cell migration and invasion leading to metastasis as well as growth advantage.
Certain types of HLA-DQ beta are associated with Celiac disease.
Efavirenz (EFV, brand names Sustiva and Stocrin) is a non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitor (NNRTI) and is used as part of highly active antiretroviral therapy (HAART) for the treatment of a human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) type 1.
A bis-quaternary steroid that is a competitive nicotinic antagonist.
As a neuromuscular blocking agent it is more potent than CURARE but has less effect on the circulatory system and on histamine release.
The posterior-inferior angle formed by Sella, Nasion, and Subspinale (A point)
Derivative of noroxymorphone that is the N-cyclopropylmethyl congener of NALOXONE.
It is a narcotic antagonist that is effective orally, longer lasting and more potent than naloxone, and has been proposed for the treatment of heroin addiction.
The FDA has approved naltrexone for the treatment of alcohol dependence.
Azinphos-methyl, or AZM, is a general organophosphate pesticide used on nuts, vegetables, and fruits.
It has been linked to health problems of farmers who apply it and the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) is considering a denial of registration.
After a 2006 lawsuit by United Farm Workers of America the EPA will begin phasing out the pesticide over 4 years.
AZM is a dangerous neurotoxin derived from nerve agents used during World War II.
Zearalenone (ZEA), also known as F-2 mycotoxin, is a potent estrogenic metabolite produced by various Fusarium and Gibberella species.
Zearalenone is known to cause toxicity in livestock as feed contaminant, often in co-contamination with deoxynivalenol and other trichothecenes.
It also can affect reproduction of pigs because it possesses oestrogenic activity.
Prepubertal female pigs are most sensitive to zearalenone and can have reduced libido, plasma testosterone and other side effects.
The number of days from the appearance of a rash until all of the lesions are crusted over or no new lesions appear.
Wrb is a very high incidence antigen of the Diego blood group system.
The ENG gene (endoglin) is located on chromosome 9q34.11.
This gene encodes a homodimeric transmembrane protein which is a major glycoprotein of the vascular endothelium.
This protein is a component of the transforming growth factor beta receptor complex and it binds to the beta1 and beta3 peptides with high affinity.
Mutations in this gene cause hereditary hemorrhagic telangiectasia, also known as Osler-Rendu-Weber syndrome 1, an autosomal dominant multisystemic vascular dysplasia.
This gene may also be involved in preeclampsia and several types of cancer.
Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
Measles, also known as rubeola, is a disease caused by a virus, specifically a paramyxovirus of the genus Morbillivirus.
Reports of measles go back to at least 600 BCE, although, the first scientific description of the disease and its distinction from smallpox is attributed to the Persian physician Ibn Razi (Rhazes) 860-932 who published a book entitled Smallpox and Measles (in Arabic: Kitab fi al-jadari wa-al-hasbah).
In 1954, the virus was isolated, and vaccines became available in 1963.
Measles is spread through contact with fluids from an infected person's nose and mouth, either directly or through aerosol and is highly contagious.
Ninety percent of people without immunity living in close quarters with an infected person will catch the disease.
The incubation period usually lasts between 10-12 days and during that time there are no symptoms.
Mammaglobin is a gene that encodes a 10-kilodalton glycoprotein.
In humans expression of the gene is limited to the adult mammary gland, a correlation between increased expression of the gene and breast cancer has been reported.
Rubella (also known as epidemic roseola, German measles, liberty measles or three-day measles) is a disease caused by the Rubella virus.
It is often a mild illness, with symptoms of sore throat, low-grade fever, and a rash on the body.
The virus usually enters the body through the nose or throat.
Like most viruses living along the respiratory tract, it is transmitted from person to person by tiny droplets that are inhaled.
Rubella can pose a serious risk if transmitted from a mother to her developing baby if a woman is infected while she is pregnant, especially during the first trimester.
The baby is at risk for having congenital rubella syndrome (CRS).
The most common symptoms of CRS include heart defects, deafness, cataracts, intellectual disabilities, and liver or spleen damage.
Food allergen mix 51 (fx51, FP51) detects F25 Tomato (F25), Carrot (F31), Potato (F35), Garlic (F47), and Mustard (F89) IgE antibodies.
Testing for IgE antibodies may be used to help diagnose an allergic disease or the cause of an anaphylactic episode in a patient.
Enzyme and fluorescent-based assays, which were preceded by the RAST test (Radio-AllergoSorbent Test), are performed to detect allergen-specific IgE in the patient's serum.
Natural Killer (NK)-like T cells (abbreviated NKT, NK-T or NK-like T cells) express CD16+ and CD56+ as well as CD3+ and are a subgroup of T lymphocytes that have properties similar to NK cells.
They produce hormone-like substances, including cytokines and chemokines, in the presence of viral infections and tumor cells.
An increase in T-NK cells in the blood can occur in viral and malignant diseases, including HIV/AIDS and leukemias (e.g. T-large granular lymphocyte leukemia).
Aldosterone is a steroid hormone produced by the outer-section (zona glomerulosa) of the adrenal cortex in the adrenal gland to regulate sodium and potassium balance in the blood.
It is synthesized from cholesterol by aldosterone synthase, which is absent in other sections of the adrenal gland.
It is the sole endogenous member of the class of mineralocorticoids.
Acting on mineralocorticoid receptors (MR) on principal cells in the collecting ducts of the kidneys, it increases the permeability of their apical (luminal) membrane to potassium and sodium and activates their basolateral Na+K+ pumps, stimulating ATP hydrolysis, reabsorbing sodium (Na+) ions and water into the blood, and excreting potassium (K+) ions into the urine.
Aldosterone also stimulates H+ secretion by intercalated cells in the collecting duct, regulating plasma bicarbonate (HCO3-) levels and its acidbase balance.
Fats consist of a wide group of compounds that are generally soluble in organic solvents and largely insoluble in water.
Chemically, fats are triesters of glycerol and fatty acids that may be either solid or liquid at room temperature, depending on their structure and composition.
Although the words "oils", "fats", and "lipids" are all used to refer to fats, "oils" is usually used to refer to fats that are liquids at normal room temperature, while "fats" is usually used to refer to fats that are solids at normal room temperature.
"Lipids" is used to refer to both liquid and solid fats, along with other related substances.
The word "oil" is used for any substance that does not mix with water and has a greasy feel, such as petroleum (or crude oil) and heating oil, regardless of its chemical structure.
Mesothelin, or MSLN, is a40 kDa protein that is encoded by the MSLN gene.
It is present on normal mesothelial cells and overexpressed in several human tumors, including mesothelioma and ovarian and pancreatic adenocarcinoma.
The protein was first identified by its reactivity with monoclonal antibody K1.
Subsequent cloning studies showed that the mesothelin gene encodes a precursor protein that is processed to yield mesothelin which is attached to the cell membrane by a glycophosphatidylinositol linkage and a 31-kDa shed fragment named megakaryocyte-potentiating factor (MPF).
Although it has been proposed that mesothelin may be involved in cell adhesion, its biological function is not known.
Myoglobin casts are seen in patients with myoglobinuria as a result of acute muscle damage, which may lead to acute renal failure.
Microscopically they appear much like a hemoglobin cast, but they are dark red to brown because of the myoglobin pigment.
Associated findings include a positive reagent-strip test for "blood" (actually myoglobin) without the presence of RBCs in the sediment.(Ringsrud 2001)
Deoxyinosine is a nucleoside that is formed when hypoxanthine is attached to a deoxyribose ring (also known as a ribofuranose) via a beta-N9-glycosidic bond.
Deoxyinosine is found in DNA while Inosine is found in RNA.
Inosine is a nucleic acid important for RNA editing.
Adenosine deaminase (ADA) catalyzes the conversion of adenosine and deoxyadenosine to inosine and deoxyinosine, respectively.
ADA-deficient individuals suffer from severe combined immunodeficiency (SCID) and are unable to produce significant numbers of mature T or B lymphocytes.
This occurs as a consequence of the accumulation of ADA substrates or their metabolites.
Inosine is also an intermediate in a chain of purine nucleotides reactions required for muscle movements.
When mapping be careful to distinguish the word pyridoxal (A is the 2nd to last letter) from pyridoxol (letter O is the 2nd to last letter).
These are both forms or preforms of vitamin B6.
Pyridoxine - the usual name for B6 is also called pyridoxol.
These both get converted to Pyridoxine 5-Phosphate the biologically active form (also called Pyridoxol 5-phosphate)
There are three natural forms of vitamin B6, pyridoxine (also called "pyridoxol") pyridoxamine and pyridoxal.
All of these forms are converted into a single biologically active form, pyridoxal 5-phosphate.
All three forms of vitamin B6 are heterocyclic organic compounds.
Green plants are a natural source of pyridoxal, and its deficiency in humans can lead to serious complications such as epilepsy and seizures.
A genus of question mark-shaped bacteria spirochetes which is found in fresh water that is contaminated by animal urine.
Sodium channel protein type 4 subunit alpha is a protein that in humans is encoded by the SCN4A gene.
The Nav1.4 voltage-gated sodium channel is encoded by the SCN4A gene.
Mutations in the gene are associated with hypokalemic periodic paralysis, hyperkalemic periodic paralysis, paramyotonia congenita, and potassium-aggravated myotonia.
Fine needle aspiration (FNA) is performed to obtain a patient specimen for cytologic examination.
This is in contrast to non-FNA aspiration of fluid, which may be done for drainage and/or non-cytologic laboratory studies, though such aspirated fluid may also be sent for cytologic exam.
An anti-inflammatory analgesic and antipyretic highly bound to plasma proteins.
It is pharmacologically similar to ASPIRIN, but causes less gastrointestinal bleeding.
A species of the PESTIVIRUS genus causing exceedingly contagious and fatal hemorrhagic disease of swine.
The posterior angle formed by the palatal plane (Anterior nasal spine and Posterior nasal spine) and the mandibular plane (Gonion to Gnathion)
Tra is a low incidence antigen of the Diego blood group system.
Avian paramyxovirus 1 (APMV-1) causes Newcastle disease, a contagious bird disease affecting many domestic and wild avian species.
Its effects are most notable in domestic poultry due to their high susceptibility and the potential for severe impacts of an epizootic on the poultry industries.
It is endemic to many countries.
Exposure of humans to infected birds (for example in poultry processing plants) can cause mild conjunctivitis and influenza-like symptoms, but the Newcastle disease virus otherwise poses no hazard to human health.
Interest in the use of NDV as an anticancer agent has arisen from the ability of NDV to selectively kill human tumour cells with limited toxicity to normal cells.
No treatment for NDV exists, but the use of prophylactic vaccines and sanitary measures reduces the likelihood of outbreaks.
Doxylamine is a histamine H1 antagonist with pronounced sedative properties.
It is used in allergies and as an antitussive, antiemetic, and hypnotic.
Doxylamine has also been administered in veterinary applications and was formerly used in Parkinsonism.
Dermatophagoides farinae, a species of house dust mite, is found worldwide but most abundant in drier regions.
Groups I and II, Der f 1 and Der f 2, are the most important allergenic proteins in D. farinae and exist as a number of isoforms.
The recombinant forms, rDer f 1 and rDer f 2, are highly homologous to the native forms.
Direct Antihuman Globulin (DAT) detects in vivo sensitivity of red blood cells using reagent specific for C3
The fractional excretion of sodium (FENa) is a measure of the percentage of sodium excreted in the urine versus the sodium reabsorbed by the kidney.
It is measured in terms of plasma and urine sodium, rather than by the interpretation of urinary sodium concentration alone, as urinary sodium concentrations can vary with water resorption.
Therefore the urinary and plasma concentrations of sodium must be compared to get an accurate picture of renal clearance.
In clinical use, the fractional excretion of sodium can be calculated as part of the evaluation of acute renal failure.
Allergy to beef is not very common and beef can often be tolerated by cow's milk-allergic patients.
Beef contains BSA and gamma-globulin, which are known heat-labile fractions in cow's milk, and differing clinical response to raw and well-cooked beef is shown in some millk-allergic patients.
Part of HLA-B57 allele family that is associated with Abacavir hypersensitivity reaction (AHSR)
Interferon-γ (interferon-gamma) release assays (IGRAs) are based on the ability of the Mycobacterium tuberculosis antigens for early secretory antigen target 6 (ESAT-6) and culture filtrate protein 10 (CFP-10) to stimulate host production of interferon-gamma.
Because these antigens are not present in non-tuberculous mycobacteria or in any BCG vaccine variant, these tests can distinguish latent tuberculosis infection (LTBI).
The blood tests QuantiFERON-TB Gold In-Tube and T-SPOT.TB use these antigens to detect people with tuberculosis.
Lymphocytes from the patient's blood are incubated with the antigens.
If the patient has been exposed to tuberculosis before, T lymphocytes produce interferon γ in response.
These tests are both interferon γ tests but they are not equivalent.
The QuantiFERON-TB Gold In-Tube uses an ELISA format to quantify the total amount of interferon γ when whole blood is exposed to the antigens (ESAT-6,CFP-10 and TB 7.7).
T-SPOT.TB is a type of enzyme-linked immunospot assay (ELISPOT) assay, which counts the number of activated T lymphocytes that secrete interferon γ.
Saltwort / Russian thistle originated in Europe and Asia and have become naturalised and common throughout most arid and semiarid regions of the world, including central and western regions of Canada and the United States.
It is commonly found on the coasts of Europe, North Africa, Asia and North America and Australia.
Saltwort pollen commonly induces asthma, allergic rhinitis and allergic conjunctivitis in sensitised individuals.
There are many nuclear staining patterns seen on HEp-2 cells: homogeneous, speckled, nucleolar, nuclear membranous, centromeric, nuclear dot and pleomorphic.
The homogeneous pattern is seen when the condensed chromosomes and interphase chromatin stain and is associated with anti-dsDNA antibodies, antibodies to nucleosomal components, and anti-histone antibodies.
Most antibodies are IgG, but IgM and IgA have also been detected.
There are two speckled patterns: fine and coarse.
The fine speckled pattern has fine nuclear staining with unstained metaphase chromatin, which is associated with anti-Ro and anti-La antibodies.
The coarse staining pattern has coarse granular nuclear staining, caused by anti-U1-RNP and anti-Sm antibodies.
The nucleolar staining pattern is associated with many antibodies including anti-Scl-70, anti-PM-Scl, anti-fibrillarin and anti-Th/To.
Nuclear membrane staining appears as a fluorescent ring around the cell nucleus and are produced by anti-gp210 and anti-p62 antibodies.
The centromere pattern shows multiple nuclear dots in interphase and mitotic cells, corresponding to the number of chromosomes in the cell.
Nuclear dot patterns show between 13-25 nuclear dots in interphase cells and are produced by anti-sp100 antibodies.
Pleomorphic pattern is caused by antibodies to the proliferating cell nuclear antigen.
Indirect immunofluorescence has been shown to be slightly superior compared to ELISA in detection of ANA from HEp-2 cells.
Activated neutrophils are tested for ability to phagocytose and reduced NBT.
Reduced NBT is seen as dark blue crystals.
An anti-neoplastic anti-metabolite with immunosuppressant properties.
It inhibits tetrahydrofolate dehydrogenase and prevents the formation of tetrahydrofolate, an essential component of DNA, necessary for synthesis of thymidylate.
Grepafloxacin hydrochloride (trade name Raxar, Glaxo Wellcome) is an oral broad-spectrum quinoline antibacterial agent used to treat bacterial infections.
Grepafloxacin was withdrawn in the United States owing to its side effect of lengthening the QT interval on the electrocardiogram, leading to cardiac events and sudden death.
Deoxy-sphingolipids are elevated in patients with steatosis compared to those without fatty liver.
Those with or without steatoses there is no difference between the different NAFLD subtypes.
Nordiazepam is an intermediate in the metabolism of diazepam to oxazepam.
Diazepam is used for the management of anxiety disorders, as an adjunct for the relief of skeletal muscle spasm and for convulsive disorders/status epilepticus, and as a minor tranquilizer or sedative.
Bufotenin (also known as bufotenine and cebilcin), or 5-hydroxy-dimethyltryptamine (5-HO-DMT or 5-OH-DMT), is a tryptamine related to the neurotransmitter serotonin.
It is an alkaloid found in the skin of some species of toads; in mushrooms, higher plants, and mammals.
4-Hydroxyvalerate is an exogenous compound sometimes found in organic acid analysis.
It can be a result of gamma-hydroxybutyric acid (GHB) abuse.
Pyridinoline is a fluorescent cross-linking compound of collagen fibers.
Crosslinks in collagen and elastin are derived from lysyl and hydroxylysyl residues, a process catalyzed by lysyl oxidase.
Fujimoto and colleagues first described the isolation and characterization of a fluorescent material in bovine achilles tendon collagen and termed it pyridinoline.
It is reported to be present in collagen of bone and cartilage, but is absent in collagen of skin.
It is not present in newly synthesized collagen and is formed from aldimine cross-links during maturation of collagen fibers.
Pyridinoline and deoxypyridinoline were found to be released into the blood during bone degradation and rapidly exereted in the urine.
In a preliminary study, both these compounds were proposed as a marker for metastatic bone tumor in patients with prostate cancer.
This item is used for reporting tabulated ethnicity detail data by the Centers for Disease Control (CDC), National Center for Health Statistics (NCHS).
The tabulation process includes the elimination of duplicate entries from submitted data as well as the application of edits to ethnicity detail submitted as literal text.
The BLM gene (Bloom syndrome, RecQ helicase-like) is located on chromosome 15q26.1.
The Bloom syndrome gene product is related to the RecQ subset of DExH box-containing DNA helicases and has both DNA-stimulated ATPase and ATP-dependent DNA helicase activities.
Mutations causing Bloom syndrome delete or alter helicase motifs and may disable the 3'-5' helicase activity.
The normal protein may act to suppress inappropriate recombination.
Cathepsin A (Lysosomal protective protein) is encoded by the CTSA gene and active in lysosomes where it acts as a protease as well as a protective protein.
Patients deficient in cathepsin A due to mutations in the CTSA gene have symptoms of galactosialidosis, an autosomal recessive lysosomal storage disease characterized by combined deficiency of β-galactosidase and neuraminidase.
Normally, the protein forms a complex with neuraminidase 1 and elastin binding protein, forming the elastin binding protein receptor.
Many CTSA mutations disrupt the protein structure of cathepsin A, impairing its ability to join with these other proteins.
As a result, they are not functional or break down prematurely, which is thought to causes the signs and symptoms of galactosialidosis.[MedlinePlus Condition:
Isobutanol (IUPAC nomenclature: 2-methylpropan-1-ol) is an organic compound with the formula (CH3)2CHCH2OH.
This colorless, flammable liquid with a characteristic smell is mainly used as a solvent.
Its isomers include n-butanol, 2-butanol, and tert-butanol, all of which are more important industrially.
Mutations in the AIP gene cause 15 to 25 percent of cases of familial isolated pituitary adenoma (FIPA), an inherited condition characterized by development of a noncancerous tumor in the pituitary gland (called a pituitary adenoma).
Many kinds of mutations in the AIP gene have been identified, some of which lead to an abnormally short protein or no protein at all.
Other mutations change single protein building blocks (amino acids) in AIP.
Mutations in the AIP gene are found in a small percentage of individuals with sporadic macroadenomas, which are large (macro-) pituitary adenomas that occur in individuals with no history of the condition in their family.
Ethotoin (marketed as Peganone by Ovation) is an anticonvulsant drug used in the treatment of epilepsy.
It is a hydantoin, similar to phenytoin.
Ethotoin lacks phenytoin's side effects of gingival hyperplasia and hirsutism, however it is less effective.
This, combined with the need for frequent dosing has limited its usefulness.
Ethotoin is no longer widely used.
Less than 10% of all adverse reactions to drugs have an immunological background, and only a part of those are IgE-mediated.
Drug therapy through oral administration is the main route of exposure to penicillin V. Minor routes of exposure are food consumption of animals treated with penicillin and inhalation of penicillin dust.
Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate (TDF or PMPA), marketed as Viread, belongs to a class of antiretroviral drugs known as nucleotide analogue reverse transcriptase inhibitors (NRTIs), which block reverse transcriptase, an enzyme crucial to viral production.
A parasitic hemoflagellate of the subgenus Leishmania viannia that infects man and animals.
It causes cutaneous (LEISHMANIASIS, CUTANEOUS), diffuse cutaneous (LEISHMANIASIS, DIFFUSE CUTANEOUS), and mucocutaneous leishmaniasis (LEISHMANIASIS, MUCOCUTANEOUS) depending on the subspecies of this organism.
The sandfly, Lutzomyia, is the vector.
The Leishmania braziliensis complex includes the subspecies braziliensis and peruviana.
Uta, a form of cutaneous leishmaniasis in the New World, is caused by the subspecies peruviana.
HE4 circulates in the bloodstream of patients with epithelial ovarian cancer.
It is a secreted glycoprotein that is overexpressed by serous and endometrioid epithelial ovarian cancers
Exserohilum is a common mold found in soil and on plants, especially grasses, and thrives in warm and humid climates.
Exserohilum rarely causes infections for people.
The most common infections caused by Exserohilum are sinusitis and skin infections, but it can cause keratitis (eye inflammation), subcutaneous phaeohyphomycosis, endocarditis (inflammation of the lining of the heart), and osteomyelitis (bone infection).
Exserohilum rostratum has been recognized as a human pathogen.
Lobular carcinoma in situ (LCIS) is part of the category of breast diseases called lobular neoplasia.
LCIS is associated with an eight- to ten-fold increased risk of developing breast cancer in either breast, not only the one where the LCIS was discovered.
Treatment options for women with LCIS include lifelong monitoring in order to detect future possible malignancy at an early stage, chemoprevention, and bilateral prophylactic mastectomy.
Loose smut of barley is caused by Ustilago nuda.
It is a disease that can destroy a large proportion of a barley crop.
MYCN gene amplification studies evaluate the number of copies of the MYCN gene present in a single cell to aid in determining the prognosis of neurobastoma (NBL) patients.
The MYCN gene encodes for a protein involved in the formation of tissues and organs during fetal development.
It can also be an oncogene that regulates gene transcription.
Amplification is determined based on the MYCN gene copy number and MYCN to centromere ratio (CEP2).
An MYCN/CEP2 ratio of >= 2.0 is an indication of aggressive tumor progression of neuroblastoma.
Tetrazepam is a benzodiazepine site agonist and binds unselectively to type 1 and type 2 benzodiazepine site types as well as to peripheral benzodiazepine receptors.
Tetrazepam (is marketed under the following brand names, Clinoxan, Epsipam, Myolastan, Musaril, Relaxam and Spasmorelax).
The genus Echinococcus includes six species of cyclophyllid tapeworms to date, of the family Taeniidae.
Infection with Echinococcus results in hydatid disease, also known as echinococcosis.
In humans, this causes a disease called echinococcosis.
Latency can be up to 50 years, and is mostly found in South and Central America, the Middle East, China, and the West of the U.S.A. (eg. Arizona, New Mexico and California).
Echinococcosis is a zoonosis, human is a dead-end host.
The final hosts are predators - dogs, wolves, foxes, lions.
The adult tapeworm lives in their intestine and delivers eggs that are excreted with the stool.
The intermediate hosts are infected by ingesting eggs.
Sheep, wild herbivores and rodents are the usual intermediate hosts, but humans can also be infected.
Heartland banyangvirus, or Heartland virus (HRTV), is part of the genus Phlebovirus and can be transmitted by ticks, mosquitoes, and sandflies.
Clinical symptoms of Heartland virus disease are similar to other tick-borne illness and include fever, fatigue, anorexia, headaches, nausea, diarrhea, and joint pain.
Lab studies show leukopenia, thrombocytopenia, and elevation of liver transaminases.
Testing for HRTV includes detection of Heartland virus RNA and IgM and IgG antibodies in various specimens, including CSF, whole blood, and serum.
Normorphine is an opiate analogue that is the N-demethylated derivative of morphine.
Normorphine has relatively little opioid activity in its own right, but is a useful intermediate which can be used to produce both opioid antagonists such as nalorphine, and also potent opioid agonists such as N-phenethylnormorphine.
It is also produced as a major metabolite of morphine, with its formation from morphine catalysed by the liver enzymes CYP3A4 and CYP2C8.
Distance between A point and B point, each projected to the Functional Occlusal Plane (line passing through posterior cusp of the maxillary first molar and a line along the occlusion of the maxillary and mandibular premolars and a line perpendicular to it through the averged anterior contact of the first maxillary premolars with the maxillary canine (cuspid)).
Hypopnea is characterized by shallow breathing, resulting in decreased airflow and/or respiratory effort, which can be observed and measured as a reduction in thoracic and abdominal effort.
tert-Butanol, or 2-methyl-2-propanol (colorless liquid or white solid, depending on the ambient temperature), is the simplest tertiary alcohol.
It is one of the four isomers of butanol.
tert-Butanol is a clear liquid with a camphor-like odor.
It is very soluble in water and miscible with ethanol and diethyl ether.
It is unique among the isomers of butanol because it tends to be a solid at room temperature, with a melting point slightly above 25 °C.
CD72 (Cluster of Differentiation 72), also known in murine biology as Lyb-2, is a protein active in the immune system of animals.
It consists of two identical halves, each of about 39-43 daltons, and is a C-type lectin.
Its primarily locus of expression is B-cells, where it appears to mediate aspects of B-cell - T-cell interaction.
It is a ligand for CD5.
Inhalant allergen mix 7 (ix7, IP7) detects Dermatophagoides pteronyssinus (D1), Cat dander (E1), Cat epithelium (E1), Dog dander (E5), Horse dander (E3), and Rabbit epithelium (E82) IgE antibodies.
Testing for IgE antibodies may be used to help diagnose an allergic disease or the cause of an anaphylactic episode in a patient.
Enzyme and fluorescent-based assays, which were preceded by the RAST test (Radio-AllergoSorbent Test), are performed to detect allergen-specific IgE in the patient's serum.
There are three types of influenza viruses: A, B and C. Human influenza A and B viruses cause seasonal epidemics of disease almost every winter in the United States.
The emergence of a new and very different influenza virus to infect people can cause an influenza pandemic.
Influenza type C infections cause a mild respiratory illness and are not thought to cause epidemics.
Influenza A viruses are divided into subtypes based on two proteins on the surface of the virus: the hemagglutinin (H) and the neuraminidase (N).
There are 18 different hemagglutinin subtypes and 11 different neuraminidase subtypes.
(H1 through H18 and N1 through N11 respectively.)
A viruses can be further broken down into different strains.
Current subtypes of influenza A viruses found in people are influenza A (H1N1) and influenza A (H3N2) viruses.
In the spring of 2009, a new influenza A (H1N1) virus (CDC 2009 H1N1 Flu website) emerged to cause illness in people.
This virus was very different from the human influenza A (H1N1) viruses circulating at that time.
The new virus caused the first influenza pandemic in more than 40 years.
That virus (often called "2009 H1N1") has now replaced the H1N1 virus that was previously circulating in humans.
Influenza B viruses are not divided into subtypes, but can be further broken down into lineages and strains.
Currently circulating influenza B viruses belong to one of two lineages: B/Yamagata and B/Victoria.
Chronic Cadmium toxicity causes Fanconi Syndrome and osteomalacia.
Increased beta 2 microglobulin in urine is sign of renal damage from cadmium toxicity.
Veterinary Medicine: Pigs exposed to dietary cadmium develop a microcytic-hypochromic anemia.
The hematocrit value has been recommended as the most sensitive indicator of toxicity in this species, and administration of iron helps prevent the anemia-inducing effects.
The ANG gene (angiogenin, ribonuclease, RNase A family, 5) is located on chromosome 14q11.1-q11.2.The protein encoded by this gene is an exceedingly potent mediator of new blood vessel formation.
It hydrolyzes cellular tRNAs resulting in decreased protein synthesis and is similar to pancreatic ribonuclease.
In addition, the mature peptide has antimicrobial activity against some bacteria and fungi, including S. pneumoniae and C. albicans.
Alternative splicing results in two transcript variants encoding the same protein.
This gene and the gene that encodes ribonuclease, RNase A family, 4 share promoters and 5' exons.
Each gene splices to a unique downstream exon that contains its complete coding region.
Mutations in ANG gene cause the Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis 9 phenotype.
The type species of LEPORIPOXVIRUS causing infectious myxomatosis, a severe generalized disease, in rabbits.
Tumors are not always present.
Meadow grass/Kentucky blue is native to Europe and Asia, this grass now has worldwide distribution in temperate regions.
It is probably the most important introduced grass in North America.
It is best adapted for growth in cool, humid climates.
In North America, though it occurs in every one of the United States, it is most prevalent in the northern half of the United States and the southern half of Canada.
It is a highly palatable pasture grass and is also extensively used for lawns and turf.
It is a major pollen-producer.
Meadow grass pollen is a common inducer of asthma, allergic rhinitis and allergic conjunctivitis.
Calbindin-D28k is an intracellular protein with high affinity for calcium.
In the kidney, this protein is exclusively localized in the distal tubule and in the proximal part of the collecting ducts.
Functionally, calbindin-D28k is supposed to be involved in the regulation of the reabsorption of calcium and possibly magnesium in the distal nephron though the exact regulatory mechanisms are not yet known.
Dipalmitoylphosphatidylcholine (DPPC) is a phospholipid and the major constituent of pulmonary surfactant.
It is also the only surface active component of lung surfactant capable of lowering surface pressure to near zero levels.
DPPC is synthesized mainly through remodeling of phosphatidylcholine.
It is thought that a lysophosphatidylcholine (lysoPC) acyltransferase may play a critical role in its synthesis
Species within groups of fish, like Gadiformes (examples: codfish and hake) and Scombroid fishes (examples: mackerel and tuna) seem to share allergenic components.
The overlap of allergen specificity between the groups seems to be moderate or even small.
Atopic dermatitis has been seen in patients with IgE antibodies to trout.
Coccidioidomycosis is an infection caused by Coccidioides immitis.
Progressive infections in the months following initial exposure may be indicative of bone, joint, skin and soft tissue involvement.
Transmission is via arthrospore inhalation.
Most infections are asymptomatic, but are increased among immunocompromised patients.
Symptoms usually include fever, cough, headache, and myalgia.
(Jacobs and DeMott Laboratory Test Handbook, 5th edition, DS Jacobs, WR DeMott and DK Oxley, 2001)
NK cells are a subset of large granular lymphocytes (cytotoxic cells).
Unlike cytotoxic T cells, they do not need to recognize a specific antigen.
Pseudohyphae are not true septate hyphae and are distinguished from "true hyphae" by their method of growth, relative frailty and lack of cytoplasmic connection between the cells.
CD49d is an integrin alpha subunit.
It makes up half of the α4β1 lymphocyte homing receptor.
The product of this gene belongs to the integrin alpha chain family of proteins.
Integrins are heterodimeric integral membrane proteins composed of an alpha chain and a beta chain.
This gene encodes an alpha 4 chain.
Unlike other integrin alpha chains, alpha 4 neither contains an I-domain, nor undergoes disulfide-linked cleavage.
Alpha 4 chain associates with either beta 1 chain or beta 7 chain
An antibiotic produced by the soil actinomycete Streptomyces griseus.
It acts by inhibiting the initiation and elongation processes during protein synthesis.
Porcine teschovirus (PTV) is a non-enveloped RNA virus with thirteen known PTV serotypes that only infect pigs and wild boars.
Symptoms of infection include diarrhea, pneumonia, pericarditis and myocarditis though asymptomatic infections do occur.
Infection with some strains can lead to stillbirth, mummified fetus, embryonic death and infertility.
The porcine teschovirus-1 (PTV-1) serotype is the causative agent for teschovirus encephalomyelitis which is a disease with high morbidity and mortality in all age groups.
Infection with the PTV-2, -3 and -5 serotypes causes Talfan disease and has symptoms much milder than teschovirus encephalomyelitis and affects mostly younger pigs.
PTV can survive a wide range of pH which allows it to survive in liquid manure for extended periods of time.
PTV can be inactivated with sodium chlorite, by heating it in the presence of halide ions and with 70% ethanol.
PTV is transmitted by the fecal-oral route.
There have been no reports of swine to human transmission.
PTV-1 is known to have occurred in Europe, Africa, Haiti and Canada.
Infections with strains that produce milder symptoms have occurred worldwide.
PTV is diagnosed using virus neutralization, reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) and enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA).
A commercial vaccine against teschovirus encephalomyelitis has been developed, but because of the low incidence of infection is no longer available.
Food allergen mix 19 (fx19, FP19) detects cucumber (f244), carrot (f31), potato (f35), and spinach (f214) IgE antibodies.
Testing for IgE antibodies may be used to help diagnose an allergic disease or the cause of an anaphylactic episode in a patient.
Enzyme and fluorescent-based assays, which were preceded by the RAST test (Radio-AllergoSorbent Test), are performed to detect allergen-specific IgE in the patient's serum.
A sulfonylurea hypoglycemic agent that is metabolized in the liver to 1-hydrohexamide.
The FGB gene (fibrinogen beta chain) is located on chromosome 4q28.
The protein encoded by this gene is the beta component of fibrinogen, a blood-borne glycoprotein comprised of three pairs of nonidentical polypeptide chains.
Following vascular injury, fibrinogen is cleaved by thrombin to form fibrin which is the most abundant component of blood clots.
In addition, various cleavage products of fibrinogen and fibrin regulate cell adhesion and spreading, display vasoconstrictor and chemotactic activities, and are mitogens for several cell types.
Mutations in this gene lead to several disorders, including afibrinogenemia, dysfibrinogenemia, hypodysfibrinogenemia and thrombotic tendency.
Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
Epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) is a protein that spans the cell membrane so is part outside of and part inside of the cell.
The external portion of the EGFR is able to bind individually to at least seven different ligands.
The EGFR-ligand complex then can bind to an adjacent receptor protein which then activates the EGFR-ligand complex and signals intercellular processes to promote cell growth, proliferation and survival.
The EGFR gene c.2369C>T mutation causes a substitution of threonine for methionine in the EGFR protein at position 790.
EGFR T790M mutation is present in 50-60% of patients resistant to the first and second generation of tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TK1) that are used heavily in patients with advanced non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC).
Once the EGFR T790M mutation is discovered the median survival of the patient is less than two years.
Fibroblast growth factor 23, or FGF23, is primarily produced in bone and helps regulate phosphate and vitamin D metabolism by binding to receptors on renal tubular cells.
It is produced as a 251-amino acid precursor consisting of a signal peptide, N-terminal domain, and C-terminal domain.
The bioactive form of FGF23 consists of the N- and C-terminal domains after the signal peptide is removed, and is also called the "intact" form.
Serine endopeptidase pro-protein convertases cleave the intact form into inactive N-terminal and C-terminal fragments, though the C-terminal fragment may compete with intact FGF23 by binding to renal tubule receptors and thus play a role in regulating overall FGF23 activity.
The production of FGF23 is regulated by a variety of factors, including calcium and phosphate levels, 1,25 dihydroxyvitamin D, parathyroid hormone, and iron deficiency.
Elevated FGF23 levels are associated with chronic kidney disease as well as cardiovascular disease.
Folate is involved in normal red cell maturation and used for the evaluation of macrocytic/megaloblastic anemia.
Folate red blood cell (RBC) measurements are used in identification of dietary folate deficiency that might be otherwise difficult to ascertain since serum folate concentration may rapidly rise to normal level after just one balanced meal whereas RBC folate increases more slowly.
RBC folate is usually not decreased as a consequence of iron deficiency and the evaluations of individuals with low serum folate and iron levels.
delta-Tocopherol is one of the chemical compounds that is considered vitamin E. As a food additive, it has E number E309.
Classical swine fever (CSF) or hog cholera (also sometimes called pig plague based on the German word Schweinepest) is a highly contagious disease of pigs and wild boar.
It causes fever, skin lesions, convulsions and usually (particularly in young animals) death within 15 days.
The symptoms are indistinguishable from those of African swine fever.
The disease is endemic in much of Asia, Central and South America, and parts of Europe and Africa.
It was believed to have been eradicated in the United Kingdom by 1966 (according to the Department for Environment, Food Rural Affairs), but an outbreak occurred in East Anglia in 2000.
It was eradicated in the USA by 1978, according to the United States Department of Agriculture.
Other regions believed to be free of CSF include Australia, Canada, Ireland, New Zealand and Scandinavia.
The infectious agent responsible is a virus CSFV (previously called hog cholera virus) of the genus Pestivirus in the family Flaviviridae (or Togaviridae ).
Of the 100 different species included in the genus Pinus, almost all are found in the Northern Hemisphere, with 36 in North America.
White pine is native to North America but is now found also in France, Mexico and Guatemala.
Commercial cultivation was attempted in Europe but was given up because of a fungus disease.
Pinus pollen can induce asthma, allergic rhinitis and allergic conjunctivitis.
Pinus pollen allergy has been generally considered to be rare.
About 30 Arizona cypress tree varieties exist, recognised on the basis of distribution and of foliage, cone and bark characteristics.
Arizona cypress is the only Cypress native to the southwest of North America and has been widely exported, especially to Europe Arizona cypress, in common with the other members of the Cupressaceae family, is an important source of allergens, causing winter respiratory allergies and commonly inducing symptoms of asthma, hayfever, and allergic conjunctivitis in sensitised individuals.
The Interleukin-28b (IL28B) gene is located on chromosome 19q13.13 and encodes interferon-lambda-3 (IFN-lambda-3).
IL28B belongs to the gene family of interleukins and interleukin receptors.
A single nucleotide polymorphism (g.39738787C>T, rs12979860) located near the IL28B gene is known to alter hepatitis C treatment-induced viral clearance.
It is associated with an approximately twofold change in response to pegylated interferon-alpha (PEG-IFN-alpha) and ribavirin (RBV) treatments, both among patients of European ancestry (p = 1.06 x 10e-25) and African-Americans (p = 2.06 x 10e-3).
Studies indicate that the virus was eradicated in ~80% of patients with wildtype alleles (C;C) compared to only about 25% of those with homozygous alleles (T;T).
Patient's with heterozygous alleles (C;T) had an intermediate response.
For HCV genotypes other than type 1 (HCV-1), the usefulness of predicting response to therapy based on this SNP is unknown.
The major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class I (A, B, and C) and II (DP, DM, DOA, DOB, DQ, and DR) in the human leukocyte antigen (HLA) system contains a large number of genes involved in immune system function in humans.
The proteins encoded by some genes form antigens.
HLA class I and II antigens are widely distributed on all nucleated cells and carried by platelets.
Antibodies specific to HLA class I and II antigens can be acquired through alloimmunization due to pregnancy, transfusion of blood products, or previous transplants.
Alloimmunization can lead to production of antibodies in approximately one third of individuals.
The presence of antibodies, specifically IgG, can affect the survival of transplant allografts or transfused platelets in sensitized individuals.
Various testing methods are used to detect antibodies to HLA antigens.
Stable blood coagulation factor activated by contact with the subendothelial surface of an injured vessel.
Along with prekallikrein, it serves as the contact factor that initiates the intrinsic pathway of blood coagulation.
Kallikrein activates factor XII to XIIa.
Deficiency of factor XII, also called the Hageman trait, leads to increased incidence of thromboembolic disease.
Artemisia douglasiana is a non-seeding aromatic shrub in the genus Artemisia.
The plant is native to the western United States and into Baja California.
It is commonly called Mugwort, Douglas's Sagewort, or Dream Plant.
Boceprevir is a protease inhibitor used as a treatment for hepatitis C genotype 1.
A species of trematode blood flukes of the family Schistosomatidae which occurs at different stages in development in veins of the pulmonary and hepatic system and finally the bladder lumen.
This parasite causes urinary schistosomiasis.
The JAK2 gene (Janus kinase 2) is located on chromosome 9p24.
Mutations in exon 14 of the JAK2 gene are present in patients with essential thrombocythemia, polycythemia vera and idiopathic myelofibrosis.
The JAK2 V617F mutation in this exon is the most common mutation among patients with chronic myeloproliferative disorders.
A zinc-containing enzyme which oxidizes primary and secondary alcohols or hemiacetals in the presence of NAD.
In alcoholic fermentation, it catalyzes the final step of reducing an aldehyde to an alcohol in the presence of NADH and hydrogen.
The 17p13.3 chromosome region has been associated with at least two different syndromes: Miller-Dieker lissencephaly syndrome is a result of contiguous gene deletion in the 17p13.3 region, while chromosome 17p13.3 duplication syndrome is a result of contiguous gene duplication in the same area.
Miller-Dieker lissencephaly is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern and involves deletion or mutation in the LIS1 gene on 17p13.3.
Clinical manifestations include lissencephally, microcephaly, prominent occiput, narrow forehead, downward slanting palpebral fissures, small nose and chin, cardiac malformations, hypoplastic male extrenal genitalia, growth retardation, and seizures.
Most patients diagnosed with Miller-Dieker die during early childhood.
The duplication syndrome is associated with a variable phenotype depending on the genes that are duplicated, and clinical manifestations may include microcephaly, dysgenesis of the corpus callosum, neurobehavioral disorders and facial dysmorphism.
Actinomyces israelii is a species of Actinomyces.
Actinomycosis is most frequently caused by Actinomyces israelii and is sometimes known as the "most misdiagnosed disease," as it is frequently confused with neoplasms.
A. israelii is a normal colonizer of the vagina, colon, and mouth.
Infection is established first by a breach of the mucosal barrier during various procedures (dental, GI), aspiration, or pathologies such as diverticulitis.
The chronic phase of this disease is also known the "classic phase" because the acute, early phase is often missed by health care providers.
This is characterized by slow contiguous growth that ignores tissue planes and forms a sinus tract that can spontaneously heal and recur, leading to a densely fibrotic lesion.
This lesion is often characterized as "wooden.
"Sulfur" granules form in a central purulence surrounded by neutrophils.
This conglomeration of organisms is virtually diagnostic of Actinomyces israelii.
Oral-cervicofacial disease is the most common form of actinomycosis.
It is characterized by a painless "lumpy jaw.
Lymphadenopathy is uncommon in this form of the disease.
Another form of actinomycosis is thoracic disease, which is often misdiagnosed as a neoplasm, as it forms a mass that extends to the chest wall.
It arises from aspiration of organisms from the oropharynx.
Symptoms include chest pain, fever, and weight loss.
Abdominal disease is another manifestation of actinomycosis.
This can lead to a sinus tract that drains to the abdominal wall or the perianal area.
Symptoms include fever, abdominal pain, and weight loss.
Actinomyces sp. have also been shown to infect the central nervous system in a dog "without history or evidence of previous trauma or other organ involvement.
Pelvic actinomycosis is a rare but proven complication of intrauterine device.
In extreme cases pelvic abscess might develop.
Treatment of pelvic actinomycosis associated with intrauterine device involves removal of device and antibiotic treatment.
A sentinel lymph node is the first lymph node or group of lymph nodes to which cancer cells spread from a primary tumor.
The site of the primary tumor determines which node(s) are sentinel for that tumor.
Arginine (symbol Arg or R) is an amino acid.
The L-form (L-arginine) is one of the 20 most common natural amino acids.
In mammals, arginine is classified as a conditionally essential amino acid, depending on the developmental stage and health status of the individuals.
Infants are unable to effectively synthesize arginine, making it nutritionally essential for them.
Adults, however, are able to synthesize arginine in the urea cycle.
The body uses arginine for a variety of purposes, including boosting immune system function and improving blood flow.
Arginine sources include diet, medication, and/or nutritional supplements.
Dietary sources include meat, dairy products and fish.
Klebsiella aerogenes, formerly known as Enterobacter aerogenes, is a Gram-negative bacterium in the family Enterobacteriaceae.
It is found in the gastrointestinal tracts of mammals and subsequently in water, air and soil.
K. aerogenes has developed multidrug-resistance (MDR), and is sometimes included in the ESKAPE (Enterococcus faecium, Staphylococcus aureus, Klebsiella pneumoniae, Acinetobacter baumannii, Pseudomonas aeruginosa, and Enterobacter sp.)
This group of pathogens is a common cause of clinically important infections worldwide.
The CERKL gene (ceramide kinase-like) is located on chromosome 2q31.3.
This gene was initially identified as a locus (RP26) associated with an autosomal recessive form of retinitis pigmentosa (arRP) disease.
This gene encodes a protein with ceramide kinase-like domains, however, the protein does not phosphorylate ceramide and its target substrate is currently unknown.
This protein may be a negative regulator of apoptosis in photoreceptor cells.
Mutations in this gene cause a form of retinitis pigmentosa characterized by autosomal recessive cone and rod dystrophy (arCRD).
Alternative splicing of this gene results in multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms and non-coding transcripts.
Propylene glycol, known also by the systematic name propane-1,2-diol, is an organic compound (a diol alcohol), usually a tasteless, odorless, and colorless clear oily liquid that is hygroscopic and miscible with water, acetone, and chloroform.
It is manufactured by the hydration of propylene oxide.
AB-PINACA pentanoic acid is metabolite of AB-PINACA and F-AB-PINACA.
AB-PINACA is a synthetic cannabinoid that shows high affinity for the cannabinoid CB1 and CB2 receptors.
AB-PINACA was first developed by Pfizer in 2009 as an analgesic medication and later identified as a recreational drug.
Synthetic cannabinoids interact with the same brain receptors as THC (the active drug present in marijuana) and have been demonstrated to produce similar effects.
The drug is typically sprayed on botanical material and smoked, although it can be ingested in liquid or powder form.
Products containing this drug are sold under a wide variety of names including (but not limited to)
Spice, Potpourri, Smoke, K2, Zombie, Kush, and Cloud 10.
von Willebrand collagen binding assay is used to distinguish the subtype (1, 2 or 3) of von Willebrand disorders, not to establish the presence of the disorder.
Trisomy 21 risk refers to the fetus's risk of having trisomy 21.
The risk can be estimated based on maternal age, prenatal genetic testing of fetal DNA, various maternal lab tests, and fetal nuchal translucency or nuchal fold measurements.
Trisomy 21, also called Down syndrome, is caused by the presence of three copies of either the entire chromosome 21 or a crucial region of chromosome 21 in each cell rather than two.
Down syndrome is associated with cognitive delay, various forms of congenital heart disease, hearing loss, and leukemia, and characteristic physical features.
The risk for Down syndrome increases with increasing maternal age.
The general population risk of Down syndrome is 1 out of 650 to 1,000 live births; for a 30-year-old woman, the risk is 1 out of 1,000, while for a 40-year-old woman it nears 1 out of 100.
Studies have shown that Glycoproteins B (gB), gC and gD of pseudorabies virus (PRV) are antigens that can be utilized in protecting herds and cattle from PRV infection via cell-mediated immunity.
One particular study demonstrated DNA vaccine coding for gB of PRV induced cell-mediated immunity in pigs and reduced the amount of virus excreted.
Since the transmissoin of the virus occurs from exposure to nasal and oral excretions, vaccine coding for these glycoproteins may play an important role in reducing the spread of the disease.
Hev b 5 is a potent Latex allergen and is heat-stable.
92% of Latex-allergic adult health care workers and 56% of the spina bifida Latex-allergic patients showed Hev b 5-specific IgE antibodies in their sera.
The CDKN2A gene (cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor 2A) is located on chromosome 9p21.
This gene generates several transcript variants which differ in their first exons.
At least three alternatively spliced variants encoding distinct proteins have been reported, two of which encode structurally related isoforms known to function as inhibitors of CDK4 kinase.
The remaining transcript includes an alternate first exon located 20 Kb upstream of the remainder of the gene; this transcript contains an alternate open reading frame (ARF) that specifies a protein which is structurally unrelated to the products of the other variants.
This ARF product functions as a stabilizer of the tumor suppressor protein p53 as it can interact with, and sequester, the E3 ubiquitin-protein ligase MDM2, a protein responsible for the degradation of p53.
In spite of the structural and functional differences, the CDK inhibitor isoforms and the ARF product encoded by this gene, through the regulatory roles of CDK4 and p53 in cell cycle G1 progression, share a common functionality in cell cycle G1 control.
This gene is frequently mutated or deleted in a wide variety of tumors, and is known to be an important tumor suppressor gene.
Recombinant Juglans regia (rJug r) 1 is a recombinant protein of the walnut and is a 2S albumin.
2S albumins have a very stable intrinsic structure that is preserved even in harsh environments, such as the gastrointestinal tract where it is believed to initiate an immune response.
Jug r 1 is a major walnut allergen.
Seventy-five percent of patients allergic to walnuts have demonstrated elevated IgE antibody titers to Jug r 1.
Decreased haptoglobin levels occur with intravascular hemolysis or extravascular hemolysis.
Increased levels in acute or chronic inflammatory response, tissue destruction, and malignant neoplasms.
The risk evaluation and mitigation strategies (REMS) timetable for submission assessments for standardize REMS information for inclusion into pharmacy systems using structured product labeling (SPL).
Amniotic fluid index (AFI) is a rough estimate of the amount of amniotic fluid and is an index for the fetal well-being.
It is a part of the biophysical profile.
AFI is the score given to the amount of amniotic fluid (by adding up centimeters of depth of four pockets of fluid) seen on pregnant uterus by ultrasound.
Doctors may use this four-quadrant technique or the "Single Deepest Pocket" technique to determine the AFI.
The distance from the most anterior portion of the forehead to Menton (soft tissue), perpendicular to the Frankfort horizontal plane
An enzyme of the urea cycle which splits argininosuccinate to fumarate plus arginine.
Its absence leads to the metabolic disease argininosuccinic acidemia in man. .
A centrally active muscarinic antagonist that has been used in the symptomatic treatment of PARKINSON DISEASE.
Benztropine also inhibits the uptake of dopamine.
A serovar of the bacterial species LEPTOSPIRA INTERROGANS, whose primary host is RATS.
Helminthosporium solani (previously known as Spondylocladium atrovirens) is a plant pathogen.
The PABPN1 gene (poly(A) binding protein, nuclear 1) is located on chromosome 14q11.2.
This gene encodes an abundant nuclear protein that binds with high affinity to nascent poly(A) tails.
The protein is required for progressive and efficient polymerization of poly(A) tails at the 3' ends of eukaryotic transcripts and controls the size of the poly(A) tail to about 250 nt.
At steady-state, this protein is localized in the nucleus whereas a different poly(A) binding protein is localized in the cytoplasm.
This gene contains a GCG trinucleotide repeat at the 5' end of the coding region, and expansion of this repeat from the normal 6 copies to 8-13 copies leads to autosomal dominant oculopharyngeal muscular dystrophy (OPMD) disease.
Related pseudogenes have been identified on chromosomes 19 and X. Read-through transcription also exists between this gene and the neighboring upstream BCL2-like 2 (BCL2L2) gene.
The TF gene (coagulation factor III (thromboplastin, tissue factor)) is located on chromosome 1p22-p21.
This gene encodes coagulation factor III which is a cell surface glycoprotein.
This factor enables cells to initiate the blood coagulation cascades, and it functions as the high-affinity receptor for the coagulation factor VII.
The resulting complex provides a catalytic event that is responsible for initiation of the coagulation protease cascades by specific limited proteolysis.
Unlike the other cofactors of these protease cascades, which circulate as nonfunctional precursors, this factor is a potent initiator that is fully functional when expressed on cell surfaces.
There are 3 distinct domains of this factor: extracellular, transmembrane, and cytoplasmic.
This protein is the only one in the coagulation pathway for which a congenital deficiency has not been described.
Alternate splicing results in multiple transcript variants.
The SARS coronavirus is the virus that causes severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS).
On April 16, 2003, following the outbreak of SARS in Asia and secondary cases elsewhere in the world, the World Health Organization (WHO) issued a press release stating that the coronavirus identified by a number of laboratories was the official cause of SARS.
On April 12, 2003, scientists working at the Michael Smith Genome Sciences Centre in Vancouver, British Columbia finished mapping the genetic sequence of a coronavirus believed to be linked to SARS.
The team was led by Dr. Marco Marra and worked in collaboration with the British Columbia Centre for Disease Control and the National Microbiology Laboratory in Winnipeg, Manitoba, using samples from infected patients in Toronto.
The map, hailed by the WHO as an important step forward in fighting SARS, is shared with scientists worldwide via the GSC website (see below).
Lecithin-cholesterol acyltransferase (LCAT, also called phosphatidylcholine-sterol O-acyltransferase) is an enzyme that converts free cholesterol into cholesteryl ester (a more hydrophobic form of cholesterol), which is then sequestered into the core of a lipoprotein particle, eventually making the newly synthesized HDL spherical and forcing the reaction to become unidirectional since the particles are removed from the surface.
The enzyme is bound to high-density lipoproteins (HDLs) and low-density lipoproteins in the blood plasma.
Heparin is a highly acidic, anionic, sulfated mucopolysaccharide obtained from beef lung or beef and porcine intestinal mucosa and is highly antigenic.
Heparin is widely used in surgery (cardiopulmonary bypass) and in medicine to treat deep venous thrombosis and pulmonary embolism.
Doxepin is a dibenzoxepin tricyclic compound.
It displays a range of pharmacological actions including maintaining adrenergic innervation.
Its mechanism of action is not fully understood, but it appears to block reuptake of monoaminergic neurotransmitters into presynaptic terminals.
It also possesses anticholinergic activity and modulates antagonism of histamine H(1)- and H(2)-receptors.
Phospholipase A2 (PLA2) is one of the major allergens in honey-bee venom.
Renal cells from the renal proximal tubules differ in shape depending on the area from which they orginated.
Renal cells can be rectangular, polyhedral, cubiodial, or columnar with an eccentric nucleus.
Strasinger KS, di Lorenzo MS.
Urinalysis and Body Fluids (4th ed.).
Cathepsin S, also known as CTSS, is a protein which in humans is encoded by the CTSS gene.
The protein encoded by this gene, a member of the peptidase C1 family, is a lysosomal cysteine protease that may participate in the degradation of antigenic proteins to peptides for presentation on MHC class II molecules.
The encoded protein can function as an elastase over a broad pH range in alveolar macrophages.
Transcript variants utilizing alternative polyadenylation signals exist for this gene.
Cathepsin S has been shown to be a significant prognostic factor for patients with type IV astrocytomas (glioblastoma multiforme), and its inhibition has shown improvement in survival time by mean average 5 months.
This is because the cysteine enzyme can no longer act together with other proteases to break up the brain extracellular matrix.
So the spread of the tumor is halted.
Scientists have just announced that this enzyme predicts death, as it has been shown to be associated with both heart disease and cance
The SURF1 gene (surfeit 1) is located on chromosome 9q34.2.
This gene encodes a protein localized to the inner mitochondrial membrane and thought to be involved in the biogenesis of the cytochrome c oxidase complex.
The protein is a member of the SURF1 family, which includes the related yeast protein SHY1 and rickettsial protein RP733.
The gene is located in the surfeit gene cluster, a group of very tightly linked genes that do not share sequence similarity, where it shares a bidirectional promoter with SURF2 on the opposite strand.
Defects in this gene are a cause of Leigh syndrome, a severe neurological disorder that is commonly associated with systemic cytochrome c oxidase deficiency.
Estrogen receptors (ER) are cellular proteins that bind estrogens with a high affinity and specificity.
They are a necessary component for estrogen-mediated cellular activity.
The presence of progesterone receptors (PR) demonstrates an active ER mechanism for the induction of PR expression.
Immunohistochemical staining permits the detection and localization of ER/PR within sections from formalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded tissue.
Clinical utilities for the measurement of ER/PR include patient prognosis and patient response to adjuvant endocrine therapy.
Individuals with receptor-positive tumors generally have a better prognosis, as indicated by a longer interval to disease recurrence and a longer overall survival, than patients with receptor-negative tumors.
Studies have also shown that the determination of receptor status by immunohistochemistry may be useful in predicting patient response to hormonal therapy.
The American sycamore (Platanus occidentalis) - also called sycamore, American plane, occidental plane and buttonwood - is native to North America.
Klebsiella pneumoniae is a common pathogen in hospital-acquired respiratory infections and antibiotic-resistant strains of K pneumoniae have been identified in local outbreaks.
This microorganism has several porins in its outer membrane that regulate the entry of antibiotics into the cell, one of which is phosphate-regulated PhoE. PhoE is encoded by the gene phoE and the expression of this porin has been associated with antibiotic resistance.
Detection of the phoE gene in a clinical specimen can identify K pneumoniae as one of the pathogens responsible for infection.
The UGT2B15 gene (UDP glucuronosyltransferase 2 family, polypeptide B15) is located on chromosome 4q13.
This gene encodes a member of the UDP-glycosyltransferase (UDPGT) family.
The UDPGTs are of major importance in the conjugation and subsequent elimination of potentially toxic xenobiotics and endogenous compounds.
This protein displays activity towards several classes of xenobiotic substrates, including simple phenolic compounds, 7-hydroxylated coumarins, flavonoids, anthraquinones, and certain drugs and their hydroxylated metabolites.
It also catalyzes the glucuronidation of endogenous estrogens and androgens.
Morganella morganii is a rod-shaped, anaerobic, Gram-negative bacteria in the Enterobacteriacaeae family commonly found in the environment and human gastrointestinal tract.
Despite its wide distribution, the species is considered a rare cause of nosocomial infections and is most commonly associated with post-operative wound and urinary tract infections.
Certain clinical isolates are resistance to multiple antibiotics by carrying various resistance markers (e.g.blaNDM-1 and qnrD1).
Other M. morgannii isolates have been found to carry other resistance markers, such as CTX-M, IMP, KPC, OXA, and VIM.
Brown pigment formed by the binding of albumin with heme.
Indicative of intravascular hemolysis
Influenza virus A H9: - Potentially nine different subtypes - Documented only in low pathogenic form - At least three H9 infections in humans have been confirmed
The GPR143 gene (G protein-coupled receptor 143) is located on chromosome Xp22.3.
This gene encodes a protein that binds to heterotrimeric G proteins and is targeted to melanosomes in pigment cells.
This protein is thought to be involved in intracellular signal transduction mechanisms.
Mutations in this gene cause ocular albinism type 1, also referred to as Nettleship-Falls type ocular albinism, a severe visual disorder.
A related pseudogene has been identified on chromosome Y.
Coproporhyrin I is a porphyrin metabolite arising from heme synthesis.
Porphyrins are pigments found in both animal and plant life.
Coproporphyrin I is a tetrapyrrole dead-end product from the spontaneous oxidation of the methylene bridges of coproporphynogen, arising from heme synthesis and secreted in feces and urine.
Increased levels of coproporphyrins can indicate congenital erythropoietic porphyria or sideroblastic anaemia.
Porphyria is a pathological state characterised by abnormalities of porphyrin metabolism and results in the excretion of large quantities of porphyrins in the urine and in extreme sensitivity to light.
A large number of factors are capable of increasing porphyrin excretion, owing to different and multiple causes and etiologies: 1) the main site of the chronic hepatic porphyria disease process concentrates on the liver, 2) a functional and morphologic liver injury is almost regularly associated with this chronic porphyria, 3) the toxic form due to occupational and environmental exposure takes mainly a subclinical course.
Hepatic factors includes disturbance in coproporphyrinogen metabolism, which results from inhibition of coproporphyrinogen oxidase as well as from the rapid loss from, and diminished utilization of coproporphyrinogen in the hepatocytes, which may also explain why coproporphyrin, its autoxidation product, predominates physiologically in the urine; decreased biliary excretion of coproporphyrin leading to a compensatory urinary excretion, so that the coproporphyrin ring isomer ratio (1:III) becomes a sensitive index for impaired liver function and intrahepatic cholestasis; and disturbed activity of hepatic uroporphyrinogen decarboxylase.
In itself, secondary coproporphyrinuria is not associated with porphyria symptoms of a hepatologic-gastroenterologic, neurologic, or dermatologic order, even though coproporphyrinuria can occur with such symptoms.
Enteroviruses are small, non-enveloped, single stranded RNA viruses in the picornavirus family and include coxsackievirus, rhinovirus, echovirus, and poliovirus species.
They are the most common viral pathogen worldwide, and clinical manifestations range from mild, cold-like symptoms to severe infections, including encephalitis, aseptic (viral) meningitis, and myocarditis.
Enterovirus infection has also been associated with the onset of type I diabetes mellitus.
The number of pacemaker wires that are grounded.
Prader-Willi syndrome (PWS) and Angelman syndrome (AS) are rare genetic disorders in which several genes (e.g. SNRPN, UBE3A) on chromosome 15(q11-13) are deleted or unexpressed.
Alterations in the PWS/AS region (15q11-13) may occur by several genetic mechanisms, including chance mutation, uniparental disomy, sporadic mutations, chromosome translocations, and gene deletions.
PWS and AS are some of the first reported instances of imprinting disorders in humans.
In PWS, the maternally inherited copies of genes are virtually silent due to imprinting.
Only the paternal copies of the genes are expressed.
Therefore, PWS results from the loss of paternal copies of this region.
Alternately, AS is caused by deletion or inactivation of genes on the maternally inherited chromosome 15 while the paternal copy, which may be of normal sequence, is imprinted and therefore silenced.
Characteristic features of PWS include diminished fetal activity, obesity, hypotonia, developmental delay, short stature, hypogonadotropic hypogonadism, strabismus, and small hands and feet.
AS is characterized by intellectual and developmental disability, sleep disturbance, seizures, jerky movements (especially hand-flapping), frequent laughter or smiling, and usually a happy demeanor.
A species of RHODOCOCCUS found in soil, herbivore dung, and in the intestinal tract of cows, horses, sheep, and pigs.
It causes bronchopneumonia in foals and can be responsible for infection in humans compromised by immunosuppressive drug therapy, lymphoma, or AIDS.
An opioid analgesic that is used as an adjunct in anesthesia, in balanced anesthesia, and as a primary anesthetic agent.
β-Propiolactone is an organic compound of the lactone family, with a four-membered ring.
It is a clear, colorless liquid with a slightly sweet odor, highly soluble in water and miscible with ethanol, acetone, diethyl ether and chloroform.
The word propiolactone usually refers to this compound, although it may also refer to α-propiolactone.
A subclass of microscopic protozoans some species of which parasitize in the epithelial cells of the intestinal tract, liver and other organs of pets and humans.
Species that infect humans include Toxoplasma, Cryptosporidium, and Isospora belli.
Isospora species of dogs and cats are generally not infective to humans.
Vascular endothelial growth factor A (VEGF-A) is a member of a sub-family of growth factors, specifically the platelet-derived growth factor family of cystine-knot growth factors.
Other members are Placenta growth factor (PGF), VEGF-B, VEGF-C and VEGF-D. They were discovered later than VEGF-A. Before their discovery, VEGF-A was called just VEGF.
Elevated levels of VEGF-A is linked to POEMS syndrome, also known as Crow-Fukase syndrome.
Mutations in the VEGFA gene that encodes VEGF-A have been associated with proliferative and nonproliferative diabetic retinopathy.
The COL4A5 gene (collagen, type IV, alpha 5) is located on chromosome Xq22.
This gene encodes one of the six subunits of type IV collagen, the major structural component of basement membranes.
Mutations in this gene are associated with X-linked Alport syndrome, also known as hereditary nephritis.
Like the other members of the type IV collagen gene family, this gene is organized in a head-to-head conformation with another type IV collagen gene so that each gene pair shares a common promoter.
Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been identified for this gene.
A plant species of the family VACCINIUM.
The GBA gene (glucosidase, beta, acid) is located on chromosome 1q21.
This gene encodes a lysosomal membrane protein that cleaves the beta-glucosidic linkage of glycosylceramide, an intermediate in glycolipid metabolism.
Mutations in this gene cause Gaucher disease, a lysosomal storage disease characterized by an accumulation of glucocerebrosides.
A related pseudogene is approximately 12 kb downstream of this gene on chromosome 1.
Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants.
Common pigweed is a common weed found throughout the world, in particular in Europe, the USA, Brazil, Korea, Spain, Mozambique, Mexico, Hungary, Germany, and Afghanistan.
Common pigweed pollen commonly induces asthma, allergic rhinitis and allergic conjunctivitis.
Fidaxomicin is the first in a new class of narrow spectrum macrocyclic antibiotic drugs.
Fidaxomicin is non-systemic, meaning it is minimally absorbed into the bloodstream, it is bactericidal, and it has demonstrated selective eradication of pathogenic Clostridium difficile with minimal disruption to the multiple species of bacteria that make up the normal, healthy intestinal flora.
Species of European house dust mite, widely spread, belonging to the family pyroglyphidae.
Cobalamins, or reduced levels of vitamin B12 may indicate the presence of vitamin dependent anemia.
Elevated levels of vitamin B12 have been associated with pregnancy, the use of oral contraceptives, and in myeloproliferative diseases such as chronic granulocytic leukemia and meylomonocytic leukemia.
Increased vitamin B12 levels appear to be harmless.
Measurements of B12 identifies its deficiency.
This can arise from: defect in the secretion of intrinsic factor resulting in inadequate absorption from food (pernicious anemia), gastrectomy and malabsorption due to surgical resection, and a variety of bacterial or inflammatory diseases affecting the small intestine.
Langer-Giedion syndrome, also known as trichorhinophalangeal syndrome type II (TRPS2), involves the loss of functional copies of both the TRPS1 and EXT1 genes.
TRPS2 combines the clinical features of trichorhinophalangeal syndrome type I, caused by mutations in the TRPS1 gene on chromosome 8q23.3, and multiple exostoses type I, caused by mutations in the EXT1 gene on chromosome 8q24.11.
TRPS2 is associated with multiple dysmorphic facial features including laterally protruding ears, a bulbous nose, elongated upper lip, sparse scalp hair, winged scapulae, multiple cartilaginous exostoses, redundant skin, and various degrees of mental retardation, speech delay and hearing loss.
SynF is a capsule biosynthesis gene that uniquely identifies Neisseria meningitidis serogroup Y from the other meningococcal serogroups.
There has been a large increase in the proportion of meningococcal disease caused by N. meningitidis serogroup Y since 1989.
In the mid-1990s, the incidence increased substantially in the United States (US) and during the past 10 years, it has also increased in Canada, Columbia and Norway.
A potential cause of this shift is the fact that the polysaccharide capsule based vaccine formulated for serogroups A, C, W-135 and Y is ineffective against children under 2 years of age and has only been useful for outbreaks of the disease.
Recent vaccines for serogroups A and C have proven to be more effective in that age group which has led to serogroup Y being the most likely cause of pneumonia from Neisseria meningitidis.
Diagnosis can be confirmed with positive blood, CSF or pleural fluid cultures.
The Val600Lys (V600K) mutation results in an amino acid substitution from a valine (V) to a lysine (K) in the BRAF gene (B-Raf proto-oncogene, serine/threonine kinase).
The mutation causes a conformational change in the BRAF protein's G-loop activation segment of the kinase domain that makes it constitutively active and resistant to negative feedback signals.
The identification of V600* mutations and their effects have led to the creation of targeted therapeutics, including vemurafenib, dabrafenib, and trametinib for the treatment of V600-mutated melanoma.
The prevalence of V600 BRAF mutations that are V600K in melanoma tumors ranges across studies from 6-30%.
In addition to melanoma, BRAF mutations have been associated with a range of other cancers, including colorectal cancer (CRC), non-small-cell lung cancer (NSCLC), thyroid cancer, hairy cell leukemia (HCL), and multiple myeloma.
Abrin is a natural poison that is found in the seeds of a plant called the rosary pea or jequirity pea.
These seeds are red with a black spot covering one end.
Abrin is similar to ricin, a toxin that is also found in the seeds of a plant (the castor bean plant).
However, abrin is much more poisonous than ricin.
Abrin can be made in the form of a powder, a mist, or a pellet, or it can be dissolved in water.
Powdered abrin is yellowish-white in color.
Abrin is a stable substance, meaning that it can last for a long time in the environment despite extreme conditions such as very hot or very cold temperatures.
Abrin has some potential medical uses, such as in treatment to kill cancer cells.
Recombinant non-glycosylated protein produced in an E. coli strain carrying a cloned cDNA encoding Parietaria judaica allergen Par j 2.
rPar j 2 is a 14 kDa lipid transfer protein.
Approximately 83% of Mediterranean weed-allergic patients, and 7% of non-Mediterranean weed-allergic patients, have been shown to be sensitised to this allergen.
Lipid transfer proteins are represented in pollen, fruit and vegetables of a wide range of plant species.
Lactalbumin is an important whey protein in cow 's milk (~1 gl), and is also present in many other mammalian species.
The molecular weight is 14176 Da, and the isoelctric point is between 4.2 and 4.5.
One of the main structural differences with beta-lactoglobulin is that it does not have any free thiol group that can serve as the starting point for a covalent aggregation reaction.
As a result, pure lactoglobulin will not form gels upon denaturation and acidification.
An enzyme that catalyzes the formation of porphobilinogen from two molecules of 5-aminolevulinic acid. .
Etanercept (tradename Enbrel) is a biopharmaceutical fusion protein used alone or with other medications to relieve the symptoms of autoimmune disorders including: rheumatoid arthritis, psoriatic arthritis, juvenile idiopathic arthritis (JIA), ankylosing spondylitis, Crohn's disease and refractory asthma.
Etanercept is a tumor-necrosis factor (TNF) inhibitor, and works by blocking the action of the protein TNF-alpha, which is a proinflammatory cytokine.
Common side effects are headache; pain, redness, itching, or swelling around the injection site; stuffy or runny nose; throat irritation.
Class of chemicals/drugs that are analogs or derivatives of amphetamine.
Many are sympathomimetics and central nervous system stimulators causing excitation, vasopressin, bronchodilation, and to varying degrees, anorexia, analepsis, nasal decongestion, and some smooth muscle relaxation.
Mitochondrial DNA complex IV (cytochrome c oxidase) include the following genes: MT-CO1, MT-CO2, MT-CO3
Phl p 2 is representative of the large family of cross-reacting plant allergens classified as grass allergens group 2/3.
Terbinafine hydrochloride (Lamisil in Australia, Belgium, Brazil, Canada, Chile, Finland, France, Germany, Hungary, Iceland, Israel, Mexico, New Zealand, Romania, Sweden, United Kingdom, and United States, also sold under the name Corbinal in Turkey) is a synthetic allylamine antifungal.
It is highly lipophilic in nature and tends to accumulate in skin, nails, and fatty tissues.
3-hydroxyisobutyryl-CoA hydrolase hydrolyzes 3-hydroxyisobutyryl-CoA (HIBYL-CoA).
The enzyme has high activity toward isobutyryl-CoA. Could be an isobutyryl-CoA dehydrogenase that functions in valine catabolism.
The gene rearrangement that combines two or three gene segments to form a complete V-region exon generates diversity in two ways.
First, there are multiple different copies of each type of gene segment, and different combinations of gene segments can be used in different rearrangement events.
This combinatorial diversity is responsible for a substantial part of the diversity of the heavy- and light-chain V regions.
Second, junctional diversity is introduced at the joints between the different gene segments as a result of addition and subtraction of nucleotides by the recombination process.
A third source of diversity is also combinatorial, arising from the many possible different combinations of heavy- and light-chain V regions that pair to form the antigen-binding site in the immunoglobulin molecule.
The two means of generating combinatorial diversity alone could give rise, in theory, to approximately 3.5 × 106 different antibody molecules.
The beetroot (Beta vulgaris subsp.
vulgaris), also known as the table beet, garden beet, red beet or informally simply as beet, is one of the many cultivated varieties of beets and arguably the most commonly encountered variety in North America and Britain.
Anabasine is a tobacco alkaloid present in tobacco products.
The presence of anabasine in biological fluids indicates active tobacco use.
Anabasine is not found in urine specimens from patients using nicotine replacement therapy, such as a patch, gum, inhaler, or nasal spray.
The anterior-inferior angle between the Frankfort Horizontal plane and the Sella-Constructed Gnathion line
Bromus inermis is a species of the true grass family (Poaceae).
A thioxanthine used as an antipsychotic agent.
Its effects are similar to the phenothiazine antipsychotics.
Heterocyclic compounds with SULFUR and NITROGEN in the ring.
This term commonly refers to the BENZOTHIADIAZINES that inhibit SODIUM-POTASSIUM-CHLORIDE SYMPORTERS and are used as DIURETICS.
Ragweed is a group of about 40 species which belong to the family Asteraceae.
Ragweed is a pollen-producing weed which may induce hayfever, asthma and conjunctivitis in sensitized patients.
Most ragweed species are native to North America with the most common being the Short(Common) Ragweed and Giant Ragweed.
These two species are the main cause of seasonal allergic rhinitis in eastern and middle North America.
Cross-reactivity across the various ragweed species occurs.
G1 dysmorphic erythrocytes are distinguished by one or more blebs (protrusions).
These cells are specific for glomerular haematuria.
Amitriptyline is a tricyclic antidepressant with anticholinergic and sedative properties.
It appears to prevent the re-uptake of norepinephrine and serotonin at nerve terminals, thus potentiating the action of these neurotransmitters.
Amitriptyline also appears to antagonize cholinergic and alpha-1 adrenergic responses to bioactive amines.
The KCNJ11 gene (potassium channel, inwardly rectifying subfamily J, member 11) is located on chromosome 11p15.1.
Potassium channels are present in most mammalian cells, where they participate in a wide range of physiologic responses.
The protein encoded by this gene is an integral membrane protein and inward-rectifier type potassium channel.
The encoded protein, which has a greater tendency to allow potassium to flow into a cell rather than out of a cell, is controlled by G-proteins and is found associated with the sulfonylurea receptor SUR.
Mutations in this gene are a cause of familial persistent hyperinsulinemic hypoglycemia of infancy (PHHI), an autosomal recessive disorder characterized by unregulated insulin secretion.
Defects in this gene may also contribute to autosomal dominant non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus type II (NIDDM), transient neonatal diabetes mellitus type 3 (TNDM3), and permanent neonatal diabetes mellitus (PNDM).
Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants that encode different protein isoforms have been described for this gene.
A hypnotic and sedative used in the treatment of insomnia.
The safety margin is too narrow for chloral hydrate to be used as a general anesthetic in humans, but it is commonly used for that purpose in animal experiments.
It is no longer considered useful as an anti-anxiety medication.
Pathologic casts are defined as non-hyalin casts, including waxy, fatty, and granular casts as well as any casts that contain cells (WBCs, RBCs, epithelial cells, etc.).
The TSC2 gene (tuberous sclerosis 2) is located on chromosome 16p13.3.
Mutations in this gene lead to tuberous sclerosis complex.
Its gene product is believed to be a tumor suppressor and is able to stimulate specific GTPases.
The protein associates with hamartin in a cytosolic complex, possibly acting as a chaperone for hamartin.
Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms.
Pellitory-of-the-wall (Parietaria officinalis), also known as lichwort, is a plant of the nettle family.
A. alternate is a mold, a member of the imperfect fungi family, and one of the main allergens affecting children.
Multiple allergens have been identified in A. alternata and the presence of specific allergens is highly dependent on growth conditions.
Sensitivity to Alternaria is increasingly recognized as a risk factor for the development, persistence, and exacerbation of asthma.
In temperate climates, airborne Alternaria spores are found from May to November, peaking in late summer and autumn.
The highest concentrations of spores are in grain-growing areas, such as the Midwest of the United States.
A. alternata commonly grows on vegetation, soils, corn silage, rotten wood, compost, and bird nests, as well as on food and textiles.
Methylenedioxymethamphetamine (MDMA) (3,4-methylenedioxymethamphetamine) is an empathogenic drug of the phenethylamine and amphetamine classes of drugs.
Amphetamines and phenethylamines are a class of chemicals/drugs that are synthetic, psychoactive drugs.
Many are sympathomimetics and central nervous system stimulators causing excitation, vasopressin, bronchodilation, and to varying degrees, anorexia, analepsis, nasal decongestion, and some smooth muscle relaxation.
In 1985, the US Drug Enforcement Administration moved the drug to Schedule 1 status with no accepted medical use.
Phenacemide is an anticonvulsant of the urea class.
Antiarrhythmic agent pharmacologically similar to LIDOCAINE.
It may have some anticonvulsant properties.
The biochemical nature of the antigens of the P blood group has been well defined.
P system antigens are formed by the addition of carbohydrates to the fatty acid chain of sphingolipids.
Because of the wide distribution of these antigens in nature, many of the antibodies to P system antigens result from immune response to other organisms.
The Donath-Landsteiner antibody, found in cases of paroxysmal cold hemoglobinuria, has been thought to be such a response.
Many cases of paroxysmal cold hemoglobinuria (PCH) in children are preceded by a flu-like illness or respiratory infection and are thought to be viral in nature.
In adults, the Donath-Landsteiner antibody may appear in transient association with syphilis.
It has been postulated that both the virus and spirochete carried a P-like carbohydrate structure that stimulates the autoantibody production.
Recently, another virus, parvovirus B19, has been associated with the P blood group system.
In healthy children, parvovirus B19 infection manifests itself with a malar rash while adult infection results in a mild flu-like illness.
The persons at greatest risk of developing complications due to B19 are those with sickle cell disease and thalassemia.
The rare phenotype for this system is known as p. Soon after the discovery of this phenotype it was noted that the naturally occurring antibodies in p females were a cause of early abortion.
Interestingly, the p phenotype is found more frequently in the Amish population.
A glycoprotein hormone secreted by the adenohypophysis (anterior pituitary gland).
Thyrotropin stimulates the thyroid gland by increasing the iodide transport, synthesis and release of thyroid hormones (thyroxine and triiodothyronine).
Thyrotropin consists of two noncovalently linked subunits, alpha and beta.
Within a species, the alpha subunit is common in the pituitary glycoprotein hormones (TSH; Luteinizing hormone and FSH), but the beta subunit is unique and confers its biological specificity.
In 1900, Landsteiner observed that the red cells of some individuals were agglutinated by the serum of others and his detailed report a year later heralded the discovery of the first human blood groups.
His limited experiments on laboratory colleagues demonstrated three distinct groups; his pupils Von Decastello and Sturli discovered a fourth group in 1902.
It was 25 years before these groups were shown to be inherited as Mendelian characters by means of three allelomorphic genes A, B and O and were, in fact, entities of one blood group system.
For most of medicine this was considered a meaningless curiosity, but for those involved with the early development of transfusions it was quickly noted that transfusion of blood only of the same group could mean the difference between a successful outcome or a fatality.
While various nomenclatures have been used to describe these factors, it was internationally decided in the mid-1940's that the characteristics would be individually identified as A, B, AB and O and the blood group system know as ABO.
Since that time there have been billions of tests preformed and almost as many publications describing various aspects and associations of this blood group systems or its allelic products.
The genes controlling the ABO system are located on the long arm of chromosome 9 and encode for either an a (1-3) N-acetylgalactosaminyltransferase (for A) or a (1,3) galactosyltransferase (for B).
These transferases incorporate immunodominant sugars (GalNAc for A; Gal for B) on to one of four different types of oligosaccharide chains (type 2 is predominant on red cells, type 1 is found in secretions, plasma and some tissue) carried on glycosphingolipid or glycoprotein molecules.
The placement of the A and B antigens is dependent upon the existence of a substrate produced by the Hh blood group system (ISBT # 018).
Some individuals have weakened or variant expression of A and/or B which can be attributed to inheritance of variant forms of transferases.
Those individuals that have neither transferases, inheritors of two amorph genes, are group O. To date, 14 A alleles, 14 B alleles and 8 O alleles have been identified at the molecular level and more remain to be found.
The ABO antigens, as stated above are not restricted to the red blood cell membrane but can be found in saliva and all body fluids except spinal fluid if the individual has inherited a secretor gene.
The antigens are also found on most epithelial and endothelial cells.
It also appears on lymphocytes and platelets as it is adsorbed from the plasma.
Alterations of ABH expression have been found in various forms of cancer.
Furthermore, antigens of the ABO system may play a role in resistance to bacteria or viruses.
A glycosidase that hydrolyzes a glucosylceramide to yield free ceramide plus glucose.
Deficiency of this enzyme leads to abnormally high concentrations of glucosylceramide in the brain in GAUCHER DISEASE. .
Ethyl acrylate is an organic compound primarily used in the preparation of various polymers.
It is a clear liquid with an acrid penetrating odor.
The human nose is capable of detecting this odor at a thousand times lower concentration than is considered harmful if continuously exposed for some period of time.
Coronavirus is a genus of animal virus belonging to the family Coronaviridae.
Coronaviruses are enveloped viruses with a positive-sense single-stranded RNA genome and a helical symmetry.
Coronaviruses are grouped in the order Nidovirales, named for the Latin nidus, meaning nest, as all viruses in this order produce a 3' co-terminal nested set of subgenomic mRNA's during infection.
Proteins that contribute to the overall structure of all coronaviruses are the spike (S), envelope (E), membrane (M) and nucleocapsid (N).
Coronaviruses primarily infect the upper respiratory and gastrointestinal tract of mammals and birds.
Four to five different currently known strains of coronaviruses infect humans.
The most publicized human coronavirus, SARS-CoV which causes SARS, has a unique pathogenesis because it causes both upper and lower respiratory tract infections and can also cause gastroenteritis.
Coronaviruses are believed to cause a significant percentage of all common colds in human adults.
Coronaviruses cause colds in humans primarily in the winter and early spring seasons.
The significance and economic impact of coronaviruses as causative agents of the common cold are hard to assess because, unlike rhinoviruses (another common cold virus), human coronaviruses are difficult to grow in the laboratory
The Pumpkin is thought to have originated in Central America, possibly Mexico, but it is now grown widely in both temperate and tropical zones.
It is an annual climber, typically with a large, round, ribbed, edible orange fruit.
But Pumpkin comes in several other forms, such as the finer-textured, straw-colored Cheese pumpkin, the Gem squash and the Winter squash.
All of these have a hard, smooth rind, sometimes lightly ribbed, covering edible flesh and the central seed cavity.
Varieties within and between species can cross-pollinate to produce hybrids: hence the great number of shapes and sizes.
Pumpkins, however, can be differentiated from other squashes by their fruit stalk: it is angular and polygonal in Pumpkins but thick, soft and round in other squashes.
Pumpkin seeds are consumed as a snack in many cultures throughout the world and are especially popular in Central American countries, where strains have been selected primarily for edible seed use.
World production of the seed for food, on the other hand, is meagre.
Pumpkin can induce symptoms of food allergy in sensitised individuals.
Dermatitis, asthma, rhinoconjuctivitis, itching of the mouth, angioedema of the face and lips, generalised itching and mild dyspnoea after eating Pumpkin soup or vermicelli made with Pumpkin have been reported in a patient.
Similar symptoms have been reported in 3 individuals after ingestion of roasted Pumpkin seed.
An osteoblast (from the Greek words for "bone" and "germ" or embryonic) is a mononucleate cell that is responsible for bone formation.
Osteoblasts produce osteoid, which is composed mainly of Type I collagen.
Osteoblasts are also responsible for mineralization of the osteoid matrix.
Bone is a dynamic tissue that is constantly being reshaped by osteoblasts, which build bone, and osteoclasts, which resorb bone.
Osteoblast cells tend to decrease as individuals become elderly, thus decreasing the natural renovation of the bone tissue.
Alpha 1-antichymotrypsin is an alpha globulin glycoprotein that is a member of the serpin superfamily.
It inhibits the activity of certain enzymes called proteases, such as cathepsin G that is found in neutrophils, and chymases found in mast cells, by cleaving them into a different shape or conformation.
This activity protects some tissues, such as the lower respiratory tract, from damage caused by proteolytic enzymes.
This protein is produced in the liver, and is an acute phase protein that is induced during inflammation.
Deficiency of this protein has been associated with liver disease.
Mutations have been identified in patients with Parkinson disease and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease.
Alpha 1-antichymotrypsin is also associated with the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease as it enhances the formation of amyloid-fibrils in this disease
A species of CAPRIPOXVIRUS causing a cattle disease occurring in Africa.
The HEXB gene is located on chromosome 5q13.3 and encodes the beta subunit of beta-hexosaminidase, which is responsible for the degradation of GM2 gangliosides and other molecules containing terminal N-acetyl hexosamines.
Beta-hexosaminidase is composed of two subunits, alpha and beta, which are encoded by the genes HEXA and HEXB, respectively.
Mutations in both HEXA and HEXB lead to an accumulation of GM2 gangliosides in neurons result in neurodegenerative disorders termed the GM2 gangliosidoses.
HEXA mutations are associated with Tay-Sachs disease (GM2-gangliosidosis type I), and HEXB mutations are associated with Sandhoff disease (GM2-gangliosidosis type II).
In their classic forms, Tay-Sachs and Sandhoff diseases are clinically indistinguishable and are characterized by the onset of progressive neurodegeneration in infancy, followed by paralysis, dementia, and death by age 3.
Alminoprofen is a nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID), of the phenylpropionic acid class, having anti-inflammatory anti-exudative properties which mimic the action of dexamethasone, an anti-inflammatory steroid, and distinguishes alminoprofen from the classical NSAID.
Thiazides are diuretics, a class of drug that promote water loss from the body.
They inhibit Na +Cl - reabsorption from the distal convoluted tubules in the kidneys.
Thiazides also cause loss of potassium and an increase in serum uric acid.
The chemical structure of the original thiazide diuretics contained a thiazide ring system; the term is also used for drugs with a similar action that are not chemically thiazides, such as chlortalidone and metolazone.
Thiazides are often used to treat hypertension.
They are the recommended first-line treatment in the US (JNC VII) guidelines and a recommended treatment in the European (ESCESH) guidelines.
They have been shown to prevent hypertension-related morbidity and mortality although the mechanism is not fully understood.
They may cause vasodilation by desensitizing the vascular smooth muscle cells to calcium release induced by norepinephrine.
Side effects can include hypokalemia, increased serum cholesterol, and impotence.
The distance from Subnasale to soft tissue Pogonion
Oxolinic acid is a quinolone antibiotic.
Dosages 12-20mg/kg orally administered for five to ten days.
The antibiotic works by inhibiting the enzyme DNA-gyrase.
It also acts as a dopamine reuptake inhibitor and has stimulant effects in mice.
Mycoplasma pneumoniae is a filamentous cell without a cell well.
It has an attachment organelle at its tip with protein adhesions which attach to sialoglycoproteins or sialoglycolipid receptors on the tracheal epithelium.
Pneumonia is induced by local immunologic and phagocytic responses.
Mycoplasmas generally are the smallest self-replicating organisms possessing the smallest genomes (500 to 1000 genes).
Mycoplasmas have several surface antigens; antibodies to these surface antigens inhibit their growth.
While various serological tests have been developed and are useful in classification, the infections are persistent, frequently difficult to detect and difficult to cure.
Mycoplasma pneumonaie infection affects the upper and lower respiratory tracts.
Symptoms including cough, fever and headache may persist for several weeks.
Infection occurs worldwide and affects mainly children five to nine years old.
Biologically active metabolite of leukotriene d4; of interest in relation to asthma, altitude sickness, etc (from Gil Hill)
Isepamicin is an aminoglycoside antibiotic.
Sultiame (rINN, also known as sulthiame) is a sulfonamide and inhibitor of the enzyme carbonic anhydrase.
It is used as an anticonvulsant.
Antibiotic analog of CLOXACILLIN.
Filoviridae is the family of viruses that belong to the order Mononegavirales.
Filoviruses cause viral hemorrhagic fevers, characterised by often fatal bleeding and coagulation abnormalities.
The name Filovirus is derived from the Latin word filum, alluding to the thread-like appearance of virus particles in electron microscope images.
Filoviruses are single stranded negative sense RNA viruses that target primates.
There are two genera: the Ebola virus and Marburg virus.
Trichinosis, also called trichinellosis, or trichiniasis, is a parasitic disease caused by eating raw or undercooked pork and wild game products infected with the larvae of a species of roundworm Trichinella spiralis, commonly called the trichina worm.
The few cases in the United States are mostly the result of eating undercooked game or home reared pigs.
It is most common in the developing world and where pigs are commonly fed raw garbage.
Keratin refers to a family of fibrous structural proteins.
Keratin is the key of structural material making up the outer layer of human skin.
It is also the key structural component of hair and nails.
Some infectious fungi, such as those that cause athlete's foot and ringworm (i.e. the dermatophytes), or Batrachochytrium dendrobatidis (Chytrid fungus), feed on keratin.
Diseases caused by mutations in the keratin genes include Epidermolysis bullosa simplex, Ichthyosis bullosa of Siemens, Epidermolytic hyperkeratosis, Steatocystoma multiplex, Keratosis pharyngis, Rhabdoid cell formation in Large cell lung carcinoma with rhabdoid phenotype.
Furthermore, keratin expression is helpful in determining epithelial origin in anaplastic cancers.
Tumors that express keratin include carcinomas, thymomas, sarcomas and trophoblastic neoplasms.
Furthermore, the precise expression pattern of keratin subtypes allows prediction of the origin of the primary tumor when assessing metastases.
For example, hepatocellular carcinomas typically expresse K8 and K18, and cholangiocarcinomas express K7, K8 and K18, while metastases of colorectal carcinomas express K20, but not K7
The Cashew nut comes from the Cashew nut tree, a member of the Anacardiaceae family, which includes a number of dermatitis-inducing plants such as poison ivy, poison oak, poison sumac and lacquer sumac.
The tree is native to Brazil but is grown in other parts of the world, and the nut is now also exported from southern India, Mozambique, Tanzania and Kenya.
Cashew nut may commonly induce symptoms of food allergy, atopic dermatitis and other hypersensitivity reactions in sensitised individuals.
Ependyma is the thin epithelial membrane lining the ventricular system of the brain and the spinal cord.
Ependyma is one of the four types of neuroglia in the central nervous system.
It is involved in the production of cerebrospinal fluid (CSF).
Methyl isocyanate (MIC) is an organic compound with the molecular formula C2H3NO, arranged as H3C-N=C=O. Synonyms are isocyanatomethane, methyl carbylamine, and MIC.
Methyl isocyanate is an intermediate chemical in the production of carbamate pesticides (such as carbaryl, carbofuran, methomyl, and aldicarb).
It has also been used in the production of rubbers and adhesives.
As a highly toxic and irritating material, it is hazardous to human health, and was involved in the Bhopal disaster which killed nearly 8,000 people initially and approximately 17,000 people in total.
Oligoclonal bands are bands of immunoglobulins (IgG, IgA, and IgM) analyzed by protein electrophoresis or isoelectric focusing.
Oligoclonal band assays most often focus on IgG bands which have the most prognostic value.
The presence of these proteins in CSF, but not in serum, indicates they are intrathecally synthesized and suggest inflammation of the central nervous system.
Oligoclonal bands may be a sign of multiple sclerosis.
A patient is considered positive for cerebral spinal fluid (CSF) oligoclonal bands if there are two or more bands in the CSF immunoglobulin region that are not present in the serum.
Glutamic acid is a dicarboxylic amino acid with acidic R groups.
It is a cosubstrate with alanine for alanine aminotransferase (ALT) and with aspartate for aspartate aminotransferase (AST).
Glutamic acid plays a key role in cellular metabolism and the removal of excess nitrogen.
Glutamic acid undergoes deamination, removes nitrogen from amino acids, and allows excretion in the form of urea.
It is increased in acidic aminoaciduria.
Diethanolamine, often abbreviated as DEA, is an organic compound with the formula HN(CH2CH2OH)2.
This colorless liquid is polyfunctional, being a secondary amine and a diol.
Like other organic amines, diethanolamine acts as a weak base.
Reflecting the hydrophilic character of the alcohol groups, DEA is soluble in water, and is even hygroscopic.
Amides prepared from DEA are often also hydrophilic.
This test is used for the detection of vancomycin resistance genes by multiplex PCR.
Vancomycin is a glycopeptide antibiotic used to treat various infections, primarily those caused by gram-positive bacteria.
Vancomycin resistance genes were first found in enterococci, and more recently have been found in Staphylococcus aureus.
The emergence of vancomycin-resistant enterococci (VRE) and vancomycin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (VRSA) in hospitalized patients has lead to a restricted use of vancomycin.
To date, multiple vancomycin resistance genes have been characterized, including: vanA, vanB, vanC (vanC-1, vanC-2, vanC-3), and VanD.
Of the six van types, vanA and vanB are the most resistant to vancomycin, and are the two types that cause VRSA.
Bovine Müllerian inhibiting substance (BMIS) is a dimeric glycoprotein that belongs to the transforming growth factor beta (TGF-B) family of growth and differentiation factors.
BMIS is produced by the Sertoli cells in males and causes regression of Mullerian ducts and continued development of the Wolffian ducts, which produce the vas deferens and epididymis.
In the absence of BMIS, the Mullerian ducts would form a uterus and oviducts.
In healthy female cattle, BMIS is produced by the granulosa cells of growing ovarian follicles and is an indicator of the total number of ovarian follicles and oocytes.
The level of BMIS in female cattle rises in the first few months of life and begins to decline until puberty.
When BMIS is not present, follicles mature at a much faster rate, which depletes the supply of follicles at an early age.
BMIS levels are associated with higher pregnancy rate, herd longevity, and response to superovulation and may be a valuable biomarker for fertility in cattle.
Zomepirac is an orally effective NSAID that has antipyretic actions.
It was developed by McNeil Pharmaceutical and approved by the FDA in 1980 and sold as the sodium salt, zomepirac sodium, under the brand name Zomax.
Due to its clinical effectiveness, it was preferred by doctors in many situations and obtained a large share of the analgesics market; however, it was subsequently withdrawn in March 1983 due to its tendency to cause serious anaphylaxis in an unpredictable subset of the patient population.
Calcium-dependent protein with anticoagulant properties
A colorless, flammable, poisonous liquid, CS2.
It is used as a solvent, and is a counterirritant and has local anesthetic properties but is not used as such.
It is highly toxic with pronounced CNS, hematologic, and dermatologic effects.
Interleukin-2 receptor alpha chain is a protein that in humans is encoded by the IL2RA gene.
The interleukin 2 (IL2) receptor alpha (IL2RA) and beta (IL2RB) chains, together with the common gamma chain (IL2RG), constitute the high-affinity IL2 receptor.
Homodimeric alpha chains (IL2RA) result in low-affinity receptor, while homodimeric beta (IL2RB) chains produce a medium-affinity receptor.
Normally an integral-membrane protein, soluble IL2RA has been isolated and determined to result from extracellular proteolyisis.
Alternately-spliced IL2RA mRNAs have been isolated, but the significance of each is currently unknown.
Infection by the protozoan trypanosoma cruzi causes Chagas disease, characterized by a reduction in the amount of IL2RA expressed on the surface of immune cells.
This leads to chronic immune suppression, becoming increasingly severe over the course of many years and ultimately resulting in death if left untreated.
CA 27-29 is a tumor marker for breast cancer.
In organic chemistry, a thiol is an organosulfur compound that contains a sulfur-hydrogen bond (S-H).
Thiols are the sulfur analogue of an alcohol.
The SH functional group is referred to as either a thiol group or a sulfhydryl group.
Thiols are often referred to as mercaptans.
Rabies virus (RV), is an enveloped, single-stranded, negative sense RNA virus and a member of the Rhabdoviridae family.
It is transmitted when an animal infected with RV bites an individual or the saliva from an infected animal comes into contact with an open wound.
Once RV penetrates the muscle or connective tissue it begins to replicate and then infiltrates the peripheral nerves through the neuromuscular junction.
From there, RV spreads to the central nervous system (CNS) in the endoneurium of the Schwann cells.
If bitten by an animal that may have RV infection, rabies immune globulin and rabies vaccine should be administered.
Otherwise, there is no treatment for infection by RV other than supportive care, and acute infection of the CNS is almost always fatal.
In countries where preventative care is not practiced, RV is still widespread.
In Asia, 30,000 people die annually from RV infection.
Diagnosis of RV is done on two tissue specimens from the brain that are analyzed by direct fluorescent antibody (DFA), mouse inoculation, tissue culture and polymerase chain reaction.
A species of gram-positive, asporogenous bacteria subdivided in 3 types: gravis, intermedius, and mitis, names originally assigned according to the clinical severity of the disease that they trigger.
This species causes diptheria.
Ramoplanin (INN) is a glycolipodepsipeptide antibiotic drug derived from strain ATCC 33076 of Actinoplanes.
Its development has been fast-tracked by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration as a treatment for multiantibiotic-resistant Clostridium difficile infection of the gastrointestinal tract, although it is unstable in the bloodstream and so can be taken only orally against GI tract infections
Mirtazapine (Remeron, Avanza, Zispin, Reflex) is a tetracyclic antidepressant (TeCA) used primarily in the treatment of depression.
Mirtazapine is also sometimes used as an anxiolytic, hypnotic, antiemetic, appetite stimulant, and antihistamine, among other indications.
Along with its close analogues mianserin and setiptiline, mirtazapine is one of the few noradrenergic and specific serotonergic antidepressants (NaSSAs).
Mirtazapine and its N-demethyl metabolite, normirtazapine, can be detected in specimens by various methods, including high performance liquid chromatography (HPLC).
The ABL2 (ABL proto-oncogene 2, non-receptor tyrosine kinase) gene is located on chromosome 1 and encodes a member of the Abelson family of nonreceptor tyrosine protein kinases.
ALB2 is an important factor in cytoskeletal rearrangements and involved in cell growth and survival.
Genetic rearrangements involving the ABL2 gene are associated with leukemias, including Philadelphia chromosome-like acute lymphoblastic leukemia (Ph-like ALL).
Thermophilic actinomycetes can be found in decaying organic material in soil, fresh water, and other natural sources.
Exposure can cause hypersensitivity pneumonitis.
An acridine derivative formerly widely used as an antimalarial but superseded by chloroquine in recent years.
It has also been used as an anthelmintic and in the treatment of giardiasis and malignant effusions.
It is used in cell biological experiments as an inhibitor of phospholipase A2.
A common inhabitant of the colon flora in human infants and sometimes in adults.
It produces a toxin that causes pseudomembranous enterocolitis in patients receiving antibiotic therapy.
Trimethoprim is a bacteriostatic antibiotic mainly used in the prophylaxis and treatment of urinary tract infections.
It belongs to the class of chemotherapeutic agents known as dihydrofolate reductase inhibitors.
Trimethoprim is marketed under the trade name Primsol.
In clinical use it is often abbreviated TRI or TMP; its common laboratory abbreviation is W.
The SERPINC1 gene (serpin peptidase inhibitor, clade C (antithrombin), member 1) is located on chromosome 1q25.1.
The protein encoded by this gene is a plasma protease inhibitor and a member of the serpin superfamily.
This protein inhibits thrombin as well as other activated serine proteases of the coagulation system, and it regulates the blood coagulation cascade.
The protein includes two functional domains: the heparin binding-domain at the N-terminus of the mature protein, and the reactive site domain at the C-terminus.
The inhibitory activity is enhanced by the presence of heparin.
More than 120 mutations have been identified for this gene, many of which are known to cause antithrombin-III deficiency.
The GATA2 gene encodes for a hematopoietic transcription factor that is vital for the proliferation and maintenance of hematopoietic stem and progenitor cells.
GATA2 deficiency affects a variety of systems, including hematopoietic, immune, lymphatic, vascular, urogenital, and neurological systems.
Mutations or deletions in the GATA2 gene are associated with myelodysplastic syndromes (MDS), acute myeloid leukemia (AML), and inherited bone marrow failure disorders (IBMFS).
Patients with GATA2-related MDS have also been found to have abnormal karyotypes, most commonly monosomy 7, der(1;7) and trisomy 8.
The pulmonary embolism rule-out criteria (PERC) is a clinical decision support tool for identifying patients at low risk for pulmonary embolism (PE).
It contains 8 questions, including age, heart rate, pulse oximetry result, and past medical history, and if the answers to all 8 questions are "No", the patient is considered to be at low risk for PE.
If one or more answers is "Yes", then further testing is indicated.
Docosapentaenoic acid designates any straight chain 22:5 fatty acid.
Two isomers are of particular interest all-cis-7,10,13,16,19-docosapentaenoic acid is an ω-3 fatty acid with the trivial name clupanodonic acid, commonly called DPA.
It is an intermediary between eicosapentaenoic acid (EPA, 20:5 ω-3) and docosahexaenoic acid (DHA, 22:6 ω-3).
Seal oil is a rich source.
all-cis-4,7,10,13,16-docosapentaenoic acid is an ω-6 fatty acid with the trivial name Osbond acid.
It is formed by an elongation and desaturation of arachidonic acid 20:4 ω-6.
In mammals, clupanodonic acid deficiency is accompanied by an increase of this isomer; the Osbond/DHA ratio is thus a marker of dietary DHA sufficiency
Meclocycline (INN) is a a tetracycline antibiotic.
It is used topically (i.e. for skin infections) as it is totally insoluble in water and may cause liver and kidney damage if given systemically.
The chemical compound acetylcholine, often abbreviated as ACh, was the first neurotransmitter to be identified.
It is a chemical transmitter in both the peripheral nervous system (PNS) and central nervous system (CNS) in many organisms including humans.
Acetylcholine is the neurotransmitter in all autonomic ganglia.
The Interleukins belong to the family termed cytokines.
They are peptides used by immune and inflammatory cells to communicate and control cell operations.
The cytokines have some similar actions to the Growth Factors but Growth Factors regulate proliferation of non-immune cells.
Interleukin 1b is a 17,500 molecular weight peptide derived primarily from macrophages, fibroblasts, endothelial cells, and B cells.
The major target cells are T and B cells, Fibroblasts, and Hepatocytes and it has pyrogenic activity.
Interleukin 1b shares a receptor with Interleukin 1a although they are significantly different structurally.
Interleukin 1b promotes antigen specific immune responses, inflammation, secretion, Colony Stimulating Factors, proteoglycanase, collagenase, and gelatinase activity, acute phase response, and cartilage resorption.
Interleukin 1b increases accumulation of cell-associated and extracellular arachadonic acid, and induces release of Interleukin 6.
The asthma action plan is a common document provided to patients, parents and others, like school nurses.
It provides guidance for three situations that can occur for asthmatics.
- Green Zone - flow reading at 80% or more of best, long term care medications with instructions on what to take and when.
- Yellow Zone - with symptoms or peak flow readings, (50- 79%) of best, and quick relief medicines, along with recommendation on what to do, it symptoms persist.
- Red Zone - with less than 50% best readings, or symptoms and treatment medications and seeking hospitalization and care.
Gemifloxacin mesylate (trade name Factive) is an oral broad-spectrum quinolone antibacterial agent used in the treatment of acute bacterial exacerbation of chronic bronchitis and mild-to-moderate pneumonia
The F12 gene (coagulation factor XII (Hageman factor)) is located on chromosome 5q35.3.
This gene encodes coagulation factor XII which circulates in blood as a zymogen.
This single chain zymogen is converted to a two-chain serine protease with an heavy chain (alpha-factor XIIa) and a light chain.
The heavy chain contains two fibronectin-type domains, two epidermal growth factor (EGF)-like domains, a kringle domain and a proline-rich domain, whereas the light chain contains only a catalytic domain.
On activation, further cleavages takes place in the heavy chain, resulting in the production of beta-factor XIIa light chain and the alpha-factor XIIa light chain becomes beta-factor XIIa heavy chain.
Prekallikrein is cleaved by factor XII to form kallikrein, which then cleaves factor XII first to alpha-factor XIIa and then to beta-factor XIIa.
The active factor XIIa participates in the initiation of blood coagulation, fibrinolysis, and the generation of bradykinin and angiotensin.
It activates coagulation factors VII and XI.
Defects in this gene do not cause any clinical symptoms and the sole effect is that whole-blood clotting time is prolonged.
Hydrogen fluoride is a chemical compound with the formula HF.
It is the principal industrial source of fluorine, often in the aqueous form as hydrofluoric acid, and thus is the precursor to many important compounds including pharmaceuticals and polymers (e.g. Teflon).
HF is widely used in the petrochemical industry and a component of many superacids.
HF boils just below room temperature whereas the other hydrogen halides condense at much lower temperatures.
Unlike the other hydrogen halides, HF is lighter than air and it is particularly penetrating, which can damage the lungs.
Aqueous solutions of HF, called hydrofluoric acid, are strongly corrosive.
The lone species of the genus Asfivirus.
It infects domestic and wild pigs, warthogs, and bushpigs.
Disease is endemic in domestic swine in many African countries and Sardinia.
Soft ticks of the genus Ornithodoros are also infected and act as vectors.
The GCK gene (glucokinase (hexokinase 4)) is located on chromosome 7p15.3-p15.1.
Hexokinases phosphorylate glucose to produce glucose-6-phosphate, the first step in most glucose metabolism pathways.
Alternative splicing of this gene results in three tissue-specific forms of glucokinase, one found in pancreatic islet beta cells and two found in liver.
The protein localizes to the outer membrane of mitochondria.
In contrast to other forms of hexokinase, this enzyme is not inhibited by its product glucose-6-phosphate but remains active while glucose is abundant.
Mutations in this gene have been associated with non-insulin dependent diabetes mellitus (NIDDM), maturity onset diabetes of the young, type 2 (MODY2) and persistent hyperinsulinemic hypoglycemia of infancy (PHHI).
Blastomyces dermatitidis and Histoplasma capsulatum are dimorphic fungi that often cause self-limited respiratory infections, however they may also cause severe disseminated disease, depending on the level of the exposure to the organism and the host immune status.
Patients infected by these two fungi may have very similar clinical presentations, making identification important for patient care.
Primary infections are acquired through inhalation of microconidia that are present in the environment.
In the United States, most cases of blastomycosis and histoplasmosis occur along the Ohio and Mississippi River valleys.
Glucagon is secreted by alpha cells of the islets of Langerhans.
Glucogonemia occurs in diabetes in which only moderate elevations of glucagon may occur.
HIgh levels (1,000-2,000 or greater) suggest glucogonoma in a diabetic.
The GJB6 gene (gap junction protein, beta 6, 30kDa) is located on chromosome 13q12.
Gap junctions allow the transport of ions and metabolites between the cytoplasm of adjacent cells.
They are formed by two hemichannels, made up of six connexin proteins assembled in groups.
Each connexin protein has four transmembrane segments, two extracellular loops, a cytoplasmic loop formed between the two inner transmembrane segments, and the N- and C-terminus both being in the cytoplasm.
The specificity of the gap junction is determined by which connexin proteins comprise the hemichannel.
In the past, connexin protein names were based on their molecular weight, however the new nomenclature uses sequential numbers based on which form (alpha or beta) of the gap junction is present.
This gene encodes one of the connexin proteins.
Mutations in this gene have been found in some forms of deafness and in some families with hidrotic ectodermal dysplasia.
Acyl-CoA dehydrogenases are a class of enzymes that function to catalyze the initial step in each cycle of fatty acid β -oxidation in the mitochondria of cells.
Their action results in the introduction of a trans double-bond between C2 and C3 of the acyl-CoA thioester substrate.
FAD is a required co-factor in the mechanism in order for the enzyme to bind to its appropriate substrate.
Acyl-CoA dehydrogenases can be categorized into three distinct groups based on their specificity for short-, medium-, or long-chain fatty acid acyl-CoA substrates.
While different dehydrogenases target fatty acids of varying chain length, all types of acyl-CoA dehydrogenases are mechanistically similar.
Differences in the enzyme occur based on the location of the active site along the amino acid sequence.
Acyl-CoA dehydrogenases are an important class of enzymes in mammalian cells because of their role in metabolizing fatty acids present in ingested food materials.
This enzyme's action represents the first step in fatty acid metabolism (the process of breaking long chains of fatty acids into acetyl CoA molecules).
Deficiencies in these enzymes are linked to genetic disorders involving fatty acid oxidation (i.e. metabolic disorders).
RCS-4 N-(5-carboxypentyl) and RCS-4 N-(5-hydroxypentyl) are synthetic cannabis metabolites.
Synthetic cannabinoids are psychoactive designer drugs derived of natural herbs sprayed with synthetic chemicals that, when consumed, allegedly mimic the pleasurable effects of cannabis.
A large and complex variety of synthetic cannabinoids, most often cannabicyclohexanol, JWH-018, JWH-073, RCS-4, AM or HU-210, are in use.
Although synthetic cannabinoids do not produce positive results in drug tests for cannabis, it is possible to detect the metabolites in human blood at a cutoff of 1.0 ng/mL.
The uidA gene encodes the beta-glucuronidase enzyme in some strains of E. coli.
The International Classification for Intraocular Retinoblastoma (ICRB) is the newer retinoblastoma staging system, which takes into account what has been learned about the disease in recent decades.
Due to early diagnosis, extraocular spread of retinoblastoma has become less common, however, for cases with extraocular involvement, the most commonly used staging system is the Reese-Ellsworth staging system.
The ICRB divides intraocular retinoblastomas into 5 groups, labeled A through E, based on the chances that the eye can be saved using current treatment options.
Group A - Small tumors (3 mm across or less) that are only in the retina and are not near important structures such as the optic disc (where the optic nerve enters the retina) or the foveola (the center of vision).
Group B - All other tumors (either larger than 3 mm or small but close to the optic disc or foveola) that are confined to the retina.
Group C - Well-defined tumors with small amounts of spread under the retina (subretinal seeding) or into the jelly-like material that fills the eye (vitreous seeding).
Group D - Large or poorly defined tumors with widespread vitreous or subretinal seeding.
The retina may have become detached from the back of the eye.
Group E - The tumor is very large, extends near the front of the eye, is bleeding or causing glaucoma (high pressure inside the eye), or has other features that mean there is almost no chance the eye can be saved.
Found in patients with peroximal disease
Human parainfluenza viruses (HPIVs) are a group of four distinct serotypes of single-stranded RNA viruses belonging to the paramyxovirus family.
They are the second most common cause of lower respiratory tract infection in younger children.
Repeated infection throughout the life of the host is not uncommon.
Symptoms of later breakouts include upper respiratory tract illness as in a cold and sore throat.
The incubation period of all four serotypes is 1 to 7 days.
Parainfluenza viruses can be detected via cell culture, immunofluorescent microscopy, and PCR.
Though no vaccines currently exist, research into vaccines for HPIV-1, -2, and -3 is underway.
Parainfluenza viruses last only a few hours in the environment and are inactivated by soap and water.
The amount of vegetable-based foods consumed, where a serving is the amount of that food customarily considered a serving.
Barbiturates were first developed in 1864 by Adolf von Baeyer and were widely distributed by the Farbwerke Fr Bayer and Co in 1904.
Barbiturates offered new treatment to patients with psychiatric and neurological disorders profoundly improving their prognoses.
Barbiturates were also used to treat sleep disorders and were the first drugs to effectively treat epileptic seizures.
Due to safety concerns related to drug dependence and overdose and new safer psychoactive medications barbiturate use sharply declined in the 1950s.
Butabarbital is barbiturate used as a sleep aid and to relieve anxiety prior to surgical procedures.
Its affects are quickly felt but the length of their duration is short when compared to other barbiturates.
Butabarbital can be very dangerous when taken in conjunction with alcohol and as a result is seldom used clinically outside of Eastern European and South American countries.
Interleukin 5 or IL-5 is an interleukin produced by T helper-2 cells and mast cells.
Its functions are to stimulate B cell growth and increase immunoglobulin secretion.
It is also a key mediator in eosinophil activation.
IL-5 is a 115 amino acid (in man, 133 in the mouse) long TH2 cytokine which is part of the hematopoietic family.
Interleukin-5 is also expressed by eosinophils and has been observed in the mast cells of asthmatic airways by immunohistochemistry.
IL-5 expression is regulated by several transcription factors including GATA3.
Salmonella enterica (formerly Salmonella choleraesuis) is a rod shaped, flagellated, aerobic, Gram-negative bacterium, and a member of the genus Salmonella.
Most cases of salmonellosis are caused by food infected with S. enterica, which often infects cattle and poultry, though also other animals such as domestic cats and hamsters have also been shown to be sources of infection to humans.
However, investigations of vacuum cleaner bags have shown that households can act as a reservoir of the bacterium; this is more likely if the household has contact with an infection source, for example members working with cattle or in a veterinary clinic.
Raw chicken and goose eggs can harbor S. enterica, initially in the egg whites, although most eggs are not infected.
As the egg ages at room temperature, the yolk membrane begins to break down and S. enterica can spread into the yolk.
Refrigeration and freezing do not kill all the bacteria, but substantially slow or halt their growth.
Pasteurizing and food irradiation are used to kill Salmonella for commercially-produced foodstuffs containing raw eggs such as ice cream.
Foods prepared in the home from raw eggs such as mayonnaise, cakes and cookies can spread salmonella if not properly cooked before consumption.
Tyrosine is a primary marker for Tyrosinemia type II and Tyrosinemia type III.
Secondary marker for Tyrosinemia type I.
The DNMT3A gene encodes the DNA methyltransferase 3 alpha enzyme involved in establishing DNA methylation patterns during embryogenesis and cellular growth and differentiation.
Mutations in the DNMT3A gene are associated with DNMT3A overgrowth syndrome, characterized by pre- and postnatal increased growth, intellectual disability and a distinctive, syndrome-specific facial appearance.
Somatic mutations in this gene are associated with a wide variety of hematologic malignancies, including acute myeloid leukemia (AML), acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL), myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS), myeloproliferative neoplasms (MPNs), and chronic myelomonocytic leukemia (CMML).
The somatic mutations disrupt the normal pattern of methylation in cells, blocking cellular differentiation.
Test to detect allergy to rice, the allergen code is f9.
All rice grown in the United States and most of that grown in other countries belongs to the species Oryza sativa in the family Poaceae.
Rice is a staple food for almost half the world's population.
Rice may be cultivated in flooded fields(paddy-grown) or hill-grown(lower quality) on tropical or subtropical terrain.
White rice has the husk, bran and germ removed.
Brown rice has only the inedible husk removed.
Proteins with molecular masses of 14-16, 26, 33, and 56 kDa are potentially allergeneic in patients with rice allergy.
Extensive cross-reactivity occurs among pollen of the different species within the Poaceae occurs frequently.
Rice allergy may induce symptoms of food allergy, asthma, rhinitis, eczema, and urticaria in areas where rice is a staple food, like the Far East.
AH-7921 (3,4-dichloro-N-{ methyl}benzamide) is a novel synthetic opioid agonist, first developed in the 1970s, but never used clinically due to its strong addictive properties.
It shares a benzamide chemical structure with several other synthetic opioids such as U-47700, and is an emerging drug of abuse .
Endosulfan II is one of two isomers in technical-grade endosulfan.
It is a cream or tan colored crystalline pesticide that smells like turpentine and is used to treat insects on food and non-food crops.
It is also a fungicide, herbicide, acaricide and wood preservative.
It is extremely toxic to humans if it is ingested, inhaled, or absorbed by the skin.
Endosulfan II is not classified as a human carcinogen.
It is dangerously poisonous to fish and other aquatic wildlife.
Endosulfan was to be globally phased by 2012.
Measured from a point on the posterior outline of the soft palate to the closest point on the Pharyngeal wall
The BMPR1A gene (bone morphogenetic protein receptor, type IA) is located on chromosome 10q22.3.
The bone morphogenetic protein (BMP) receptors are a family of transmembrane serine/threonine kinases that include the type I receptors BMPR1A and BMPR1B and the type II receptor BMPR2.
These receptors are also closely related to the activin receptors, ACVR1 and ACVR2.
The ligands of these receptors are members of the TGF-beta superfamily.
TGF-betas and activins transduce their signals through the formation of heteromeric complexes with 2 different types of serine (threonine) kinase receptors: type I receptors of about 50-55 kD and type II receptors of about 70-80 kD. Type II receptors bind ligands in the absence of type I receptors, but they require their respective type I receptors for signaling, whereas type I receptors require their respective type II receptors for ligand binding.
Carbapenems are broad-spectrum agents frequently used in treatment of infections caused by gram-negative bacteria that are resistant to multiple drugs.
In recent years, Enterobacteriaceae that are resistant to carbapenems (i.e., carbapenem-resistant Enterobacteriaceae or CREs) have emerged, causing serious concern due to the increasingly limited treatment options.
Gene testing to determine the type(s) of carbapenemase resistance present helps with determining an appropriate treatment plan.
Cyclothiazide is a diuretic.
It is known to act as a positive allosteric modulator of the AMPA receptor.
Hepatitis E virus (HEV) is a small, non-enveloped, single-stranded RNA virus.
There are four major HEV genotypes (genotypes 1 to 4) that comprise a single serotype.
Genotypes 1, 2 and 4 are associated with widespread outbreaks and are found in Asia and Africa, Mexico and west Africa, and Taiwan and China, respectively.
Genotype 3 is the cause of isolated cases in developed countries.
HEV infection targets the liver and is usually a self-limited, acute illness in immunocompetent patients, however, patients with solid organ transplants who are infected with HEV may develop chronic hepatitis.
In developing countries, the most common source of HEV is fecally-contaminated drinking water.
In developed countries, sporadic cases of HEV genotype 3 have occurred following consumption of uncooked or undercooked pork or deer meat and consumption of shellfish; zoonotic spread is possible though not common.
As of 2015, there is no FDA-approved vaccine for HEV in the U.S., but a recombinant vaccine was recently approved for use in China.
Free GABA levels may be elevated in the CSF of patients suffering from neurological diseases with inflammation and tissular necrosis such as cerebral cysticercosis.
Mitogen-activated protein kinase 9 is an enzyme that in humans is encoded by the MAPK9 gene.
Hippuric acid (Gr. hippos, horse, ouron, urine), benzoyl glycocoll or benzoyl amidoacetic acid, C9 H9 NO3 or C6 H5 CONHCH2 CO2 H, is an organic acid found in the urine of horses and other herbivores.
Its molecular weight is 179.175 and melting point range is 188-191ºC. High concentrations of hippuric acid can also indicate a toluene intoxication.
It is excreted when many aromatic compounds, such as benzoic acid and toluene, are taken internally.
Justus von Liebig in 1829 showed that it differed from benzoic acid, and in 1839 determined its constitution, while in 1873 Victor Dessaignes (Ann. 87, p. 325) synthesized it by the action of benzoyl chloride on zinc glycocollide.
It is also formed by heating benzoic anhydride with glycine (Theodor Curtius, Ber., 1884, 17, p. 1662), and by heating benzamide with monochloroacetic acid.
It crystallizes in rhombic prisms which are readily soluble in hot water, melt at 187°C. and decompose at about 240°C.
The v2 region of the SEPT9 promoter has been shown to be methylated in colorectal cancer tissue compared with normal colonic mucosa.
Highly sensitive real time PCR assays can detect methylated SEPT9 in the blood of colorectal cancer patients
The Common fig (Ficus carica) is a large, deciduous shrub or small tree native to southwest Asia and the Mediterranean region (from Afghanistan to Portugal).
Parathyrin 1-84 (PTH (1-84)) is the biologically active hormone that regulates the calcium and phosphate levels in the circulation.
PTH (1-84) is originally produced as a 118-amino acid polypeptide in the parathyroid glands.
It is cleaved twice to form a functional 84-amino acid peptide that is stored in the parathyroid cells.
The first 34 amino acids bind to the type 1 PTH/PTH-related peptide receptor that is expressed primarily in bone, kidney, cartilage, vessels, and certain developing organs.
The half-life of PTH (1-84) is 2-4 minutes, after which it is degraded into a carboxyl (C)- or amino (N)-terminal fragment.
The C-fragments have a half-life of 5-10 minutes, are cleared by the kidneys, and can accumulate in the circulation during chronic kidney disease.
Some evidence suggests that N-terminally truncated fragment PTH (7-84) may interact with receptors that regulate bone resorption and serum calcium concentrations that could lead to the quantification of other PTH fragments.
Rocio virus (ROCV) was isolated in 1975 during an outbreak of human encephalitis in Brazil.
ROCV is an enveloped flavivirus containing a positive-sense single-stranded RNA.
ROCV belongs to the Flaviviridae family, genus Flavivirus.
Like other flaviviruses ROCV is morphologic, morphogenetic, and can cross the blood brain barrier.
ROCV infection presents as fever, malaise, severe headache, lower extremity weakness, and severe neurologic symptoms including encephalitis.
The vectors are mosquitoes and may include Aedes scapularis and Psorophora ferox .
Methylglutaric acid is a leucine metabolite.
A large amount of methylglutaric acid is identified in urine of patients with deficiency of 3-methylglutaconyl coenzyme A hydratase .
Saltgrass is, within its specialised saline and alkali environments, widely distributed across the western United States and Canada: from Saskatchewan to eastern Washington, and south to California, Texas, and Mexico.
Salt grass pollen can induce asthma, allergic rhinitis and allergic conjunctivitis.
One of the SHIGELLA species that produces bacillary dysentery (DYSENTERY, BACILLARY).
Rickettsia is a genus of non-motile, Gram-negative, and highly pleomorphic bacteria.
Their survival depends on entry, growth, and replication within the cytoplasm of eukaryotic host cells.
Rickettsia species are carried by many ticks, fleas, and lice, and cause a variety of diseases in humans.
Rickettsia is classified into three groups: spotted fever, typhus and scrub typhus.
Original classification was based on serology and has since been confirmed by DNA sequencing.
Rickettsia typhus group and associated illnesses include R typhi (Murine typhus) and R prowazekii (epidemic, recrudescent and sporadic typhus).
A covalently linked dimeric nonessential amino acid formed by the oxidation of CYSTEINE.
Two molecules of cysteine are joined together by a disulfide bridge to form cystine.
Promazine (Sparine) is a medication that belongs to the phenothiazine class of antipsychotics.
An older medication used to treat schizophrenia, it is still prescribed, alongside newer agents such as olanzapine and quetiapine.
It has predominantly anticholinergic side effects, though extrapyramidal side effects are not uncommon either.
18 Beta-Glycyrrhetinic acid (GRA) is a major metabolite of glycyrrhizic acid (glycyrrhizin), which is obtained from licorice and licorice root.
GRA inhibits 11 beta-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase (11 beta OHSD) which in turn inhibits the conversion of active cortisol to inactive cortisone in the kidneys.
This leads to high cortisol levels in the collecting duct of the kidney.
Patients often have high blood pressure with a low renin and low aldosterone blood level.
The increased amounts of cortisol binds to the unprotected, unspecific mineralocorticoid receptors and induce sodium and fluid retention, hypokalaemia, high blood pressure and inhibition of the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system.
Therefore licorice should not be given to patients with a known history of hypertension.
A species of gram-positive bacteria in the family Clostridiaceae, found in INTESTINES and SOIL.
The 11 Chinchillas brought to the US in 1923 to be the basis of commercial Chinchilla breeding there belonged to either the species Chinchilla laniger (long-tailed) or Chinchilla brevicaudata (short-tailed).
Direct or indirect contact with animal allergens frequently causes sensitisation.
Animal allergens may be major components of house dust
The human alpha globin gene cluster located on chromosome 16 spans about 30 kb and includes seven loci: 5 '- zeta - pseudozeta - mu - pseudoalpha-1 - alpha-2 - alpha-1 - theta - 3'.
The alpha-2 (HBA2) and alpha-1 (HBA1) coding sequences are identical.
These genes differ slightly over the 5' untranslated regions and the introns, but they differ significantly over the 3' untranslated regions.
Two alpha chains plus two beta chains constitute HbA, which in normal adult life comprises about 97% of the total hemoglobin; alpha chains combine with delta chains to constitute HbA-2, which with HbF (fetal hemoglobin) makes up the remaining 3% of adult hemoglobin.
Alpha thalassemias result from deletions of each of the alpha genes as well as deletions of both HBA2 and HBA1; some nondeletion alpha thalassemias have also been reported.
Bisphenol A, commonly abbreviated as BPA, is an organic compound with two phenol functional groups.
It is a difunctional building block of several important plastics and plastic additives.
Estrogens (also oestrogens) are a group of steroid compounds, named for their importance in the oestrus cycle, and functioning as the primary female sex hormone.
While estrogens are present in both men and women, they are usually present at significantly higher levels in women of reproductive age.
They promote the development of female secondary sex characteristics, such as breasts, and are also involved in the thickening of the endometrium and other aspects of regulating the menstrual cycle.
The three major naturally occurring estrogens in women are estradiol, estriol and estrone.
From menarche to menopause the primary estrogen is estradiol 17beta.
In the body these are all produced from androgens through enzyme action.
Estradiol is produced from testosterone and estrone from androstenedione.
Estrone is weaker than estradiol, and in post-menopausal women more estrone is present than estradiol.
Bone density scanning (Also called dual-energy x-ray absorptiometry (DXA or DEXA) or bone densitometry) is a procedure used to measure bone loss.
DXA is the standard for measuring bone mineral density (BMD), or the amount of bone matter per square centimeter of bone.
It is a non-invasive procedure involving minimal radiation exposure.
While measurements are typically made over the lumbar spine or proximal hip; the femur, radius/ulna, or calcaneus (heel) may be measured.
Results may be reported as: 1) Measured density reported in either g/cm2 (grams per centimeters squared) or mg/cm2 (milligrams per centimeters squared), 2) T-score, the number of standard deviations above or below the mean for a healthy young adult of the same gender as the patient, and with peak bone mass, and 3) Z-score, the number of standard deviations above or below the mean for the patient's age and gender (race and weight may optionally be included).
The most common reason for measuring bone density is to screen for and/or diagnose osteoporosis.
Limitations for this technique may include but are not limited to the size of the patient and thickness of tissue overlying the bone.
A species of the genus BRUCELLA which are pathogenic to SHEEP.
CD4 (cluster of differentiation 4) is a glycoprotein expressed on the surface of T helper cells, regulatory T cells, monocytes, macrophages, and dendritic cells.
It was discovered in the late 1970s and was originally known as leu-3 and T4
(after the OKT4 monoclonal antibody that reacted with it) before being named CD4 in 1984.
Interleukin-18 also known as IL18 is a protein which in humans is encoded by the IL18 gene.
The protein encoded by this gene is a proinflammatory cytokine.
IL-18 is able to induce severe inflammatory reactions, which suggests its role in certain inflammatory disorders.
Chromosome complex structural aberration analysis by cytogenetic methods can include spectral karyotyping (SKY), multiplex (M)-FISH and C-banding techniques to identify complex aberrations such as unbalanced translocations and chromosome rearrangements.
Both SKY and M-FISH involve "painting" each chromosome a different color using 24 unique fluorochromes and then using the colors to identify subtle structural variations that previously could not be detected.
C-banding is a technique that stains constitutive heterochromatin, which is present in centromeric and telomeric DNA, as well as specific other regions of certain chromosomes, such as the Y chromosome.
According to one study, M-FISH has been able to identify chromosome abnormalities in up to 7% of patients with previously unexplained mental retardation.
Complex structural aberration analysis can be the next step in evaluation when an abnormality is detected but cannot be further identified using more common methods, and the advanced methodologies are being utilized in different domains, including prenatal diagnosis as well as solid and hematologic malignancies.
Patients who are sensitized to chicken meat may react also to turkey meat.
Complement Factor B present during primary activation of complement system via the alternative pathway is occuring when C3 and PFB are decreased and C4 is normal.
There are two independent pathways for complement activation --- the classical system activated by immune complexes and the alternate pathway activated by bacterial cell walls ans complex polysaccharides.
Porferdin Factor B is one of the alternate pathway proteins.
Phl p 7 (1,7-8,59-60) is a minor, non- glycosylated, allergen of Timothy grass pollen, recognising serum IgE antibodies in 10-15% of grass pollen-sensitized subjects.
Sulfites (also sulphites) are compounds that contain the sulfite ion SO2−3
(additive IUPAC name: trioxidosulfate(2−)).
The sulfite ion is the conjugate base of sulfurous acid.
Although the acid itself is elusive, its salts are widely used.
Sulfites are used in increasing amounts as a food preservative or enhancer.
They may come in various forms, such as: sulfur dioxide, potassium bisulfite or potassium, metabisulfite, sodium bisulfite, sodium metabisulfite or sodium sulfite.
Sulfites are counted among the top nine food allergens, but a reaction to sulfite is not a true allergy.
It may cause breathing difficulty within minutes after eating a food containing it, or migraines.
Asthmatics and possibly people with salicylate sensitivity (or aspirin sensitivity) are at an elevated risk for reaction to sulfites.
The reaction can, but not often, be fatal, and the individual must immediately go to the emergency room.
Other symptoms include sneezing, swelling of the throat, and hives.
Disaturated phosphatidylcholine (DSPC) is the main component of pulmonary surfactant.
Disaturated phosphatidylcholine is formed from phosphatidylcholine plus two saturated fatty acids, usually palmitate.
The level of DSPC in amniotic fluid is a marker of fetal lung maturity, and the amount of DSPC in amniotic fluid increases significantly during the second half of the third trimester of pregnancy.
The amniotic fluid DSPC level has been shown to be a more reliable predictor of infant respiratory distress syndrome compared to the lecithin/sphingomyelin ratio.
Document that is generated in response to a request.
Tramadol is an atypical opioid which is a centrally acting analgesic, used for treating moderate to severe pain and is an abused substance.
It is a synthetic agent, unrelated to other opioids, that act on the GABAergic, noradrenergic and serotonergic systems.
It may be habit forming.
Galactose-1-phosphate uridylyltransferase (or GALT) is an enzyme responsible for converting ingested galactose to glucose.
Deficiency of GALT causes galactosemia.
The GALT gene is located on the ninth chromosome (9p13).
Elevation of one or more organic acids is diagnostic for organic aciduria.
Phenylacetate acid is a bacterial metabolite of tyrosine.
Elevated levels may be seen with tyrosinemia,PKU,and hawkinsinuria.(Information from: Kumps A, Duez P, Mardens Y. Metabolic, Nutritional, Iatrogenic, and Artifactual Sources of Urinary Organic Acids: A Comprehensive Table.
Very elevated levels associated with celiac disease (gluten sensitivity), enteritis, and intestinal resection.
4-Deoxythreonic acid is a normally occurring carboxylic acid in humans.
Metabolic profiling of urinary organic acids from patients with juvenile-onset (Type 1) diabetes mellitus have revealed significantly elevated levels of 4-deoxythreonic acid.
The normal urinary constituent 4-deoxythreonic acid was found to be diminished in urine incubated with E. coli.
The CYP2C9 gene (cytochrome P450, family 2, subfamily C, polypeptide 9) is located on chromosome 10q24.
This gene encodes a member of the cytochrome P450 superfamily of enzymes.
The cytochrome P450 proteins are monooxygenases which catalyze many reactions involved in drug metabolism and synthesis of cholesterol, steroids and other lipids.
This protein localizes to the endoplasmic reticulum and its expression is induced by rifampin.
The enzyme is known to metabolize many xenobiotics, including phenytoin, tolbutamide, ibuprofen and S-warfarin.
Studies identifying individuals who are poor metabolizers of phenytoin and tolbutamide suggest that this gene is polymorphic.
The gene is located within a cluster of cytochrome P450 genes on chromosome 10q24.
Lipophages are macrophages that contains an abundance of small lipid vacuoles that completely fill the cytoplasm.
The lipid vacuoles are thought to originate from 1) extracellular fatty material or 2) membranes of ingested cells.
Lipophages in CSF may be due to cerebral infarcts, chemotherapy injections, or post-irradiation.
Lipophages in pleural fluid may be associated with chylothorax or extensive cell membrane destruction.
Deoxyadenosine is a deoxyribonucleoside.
It is a derivative of the nucleoside adenosine, differing from the latter by the replacement of a hydroxyl group (-OH) by hydrogen (-H) at the 2' position of its ribose sugar moiety.
In absence of adenosine deaminase (ADA) it accumulates in T lymphocytes and kills these cells resulting in a genetic disorder known as adenosine deaminase severe combined immunodeficiency disease(ADA-SCID)
The TH gene (tyrosine hydroxylase) is located on chromosome 11p15.5.
The protein encoded by this gene is involved in the conversion of tyrosine to dopamine.
It is the rate-limiting enzyme in the synthesis of catecholamines, hence plays a key role in the physiology of adrenergic neurons.
Mutations in this gene have been associated with autosomal recessive Segawa syndrome.
Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been noted for this gene.
The North Pacific hake, Pacific hake, or Pacific whiting, Merluccius productus, is a merluccid hake of the genus Merluccius, found in the north east Pacific Ocean from northern Vancouver Island to the northern part of the Gulf of California.
The Ambler classification for carbapenemases utilizes four molecular classes - A, B, C and D. The GES-type enzymes identified in Enterobacteriaceae, Klebsiella pneumoniae and Psudomonas aeruginosa are plasmid encoded and included in class A. Studies have shown dissemination of organisms with the GES-type gene in Kuwait, North Africa and Turkey.
Intermediate-density lipoprotein (IDL) and Very-low-density lipoprotein (VLDL) are two of the five major groups of lipoproteins (chylomicrons, VLDL, IDL, low-density lipoprotein (LDL), and high-density lipoprotein (HDL)) that enable fats and cholesterol to move within the water-based solution of the bloodstream.
IDL is a triglyceride rich, apo B-containing, lipoprotein intermediate in density and size between LDL and VLDL.
VLDL is assembled in the liver from cholesterol and apolipoproteins.
When the triglycerides in VLDL are removed by lipoprotein lipase, VLDL is converted to a smaller particle with a new name, intermediate-density lipoprotein (IDL).
Moderately increased levels of IDL and VLDL cholesterol are closely associated with coronary artery disease.
Abnormally low levels of cholesterol are termed hypocholesterolemia, which may be linked to depression, cancer, and cerebral hemorrhage.
Isoleucine is one of the 20 basic amino acids, and forms part of the structure of almost all proteins.
It is coded for in DNA.
Its chemical composition is identical to that of leucine, but the arrangement of its atoms is slightly different, resulting in different properties.
Nutritionally, in humans, isoleucine is an essential amino acid.
Isoleucine is a hydrophobic amino acid.
Its three letter code is ILE and its one letter code is I. Isoleucine has two chiral centers; therefore there are four possible stereoisomers of isoleucine and two possible diastereomers of L-isoleucine.
However, isoleucine present in nature exists in one enantiomeric form, (2 S ,3 S)-2-amino-3-methylpentanoic acid.
Rich sources of isoleucine are eggs, chicken, pork, mutton, pulses, soya beans, cottage cheese, milk, piyal seeds, cashew nuts, and cereal grains.
Egg yolk and chicken meat may have some allergens in common.
Specific IgE-antibodies to chicken have been demonstrated in several studies on patients with bronchial asthma, rhinoconjunctivitis, or atopic dermatitis.
Association to sensitization to egg and bird feathers has been shown in some cases.
Mutations in the SARS2 are associated with hyperuricemia, pulmonary hypertension, renal failure, and alkalosis, and hyperuricemia.
Belostotosky et al (2011) reported a homozygous SARS2 mutation, c.1169A>G (p.Asp390Gly), in several infants with a hyperuricemia pulmonary hypertension renal failure and alkalosis (HUPRA), a multisystem disorder characterized by onset in infancy of progressive renal failure leading to electrolyte imbalances, metabolic alkalosis, pulmonary hypertension, hypotonia, and delayed development.
A nasogastric tube is a type of enteral tube that is inserted through the nose, down the throat and esophagus and into the stomach.
It can be used to give a patient fluids, medication or liquid food used mainly on patients who cannot eat or swallow.
It is generally used for short-term support.
Hantaviruses are rodent-borne pathogens normally transmitted to humans via feces, urine, and saliva of infected rodents.
Several human pathogenic hantavirus subtypes are known worldwide, including Hantaan, Dobrova, Seoul, Puumala, Sin Nombre and Saaremaa.
Hantaviruses are known to cause haemorrhagic fever with renal syndrome (HFRS), kidney failure, acute respiratory distress syndrome, and Hantavirus pulmonary syndrome.
CD154, also called CD40 ligand or CD40L, is a protein that is primarily expressed on activated T cells and is a member of the TNF family of molecules.
It binds to CD40 on antigen-presenting cells (APC), which leads to many effects depending on the target cell type.
In general, CD40L plays the role of a costimulatory molecule and induces activation in APC in association with T cell receptor stimulation by MHC molecules on the APC.
The protein encoded by this gene is expressed on the surface of T cells.
It regulates B cell function by engaging CD40 on the B cell surface.
A defect in this gene, which could result in either reduced expression or normal expression with reduced functional binding to CD40, results in an inability to undergo immunoglobulin class switch and is associated with hyper-IgM syndrome.
Obstructive apnea is the repeated collapsing of the upper airway which may lead to reduced oxygen saturation levels and sleep disruptions.
Colorless prisms, 3 to 6 sides ("coffin lid") or "fern leaf".
Usually no clinical significance, but can lead to stone formation or chronic UTI.
Koontz A. Clinical Significance of Formed Elements in Urine.
Hemoglobin G (Hgb G) is a rare hemoglobin variant that results from particular mutations in either the alpha and beta globin chains.
The most common Hgb G variant is Philadelphia, an alpha chain mutation occurring most frequently in individuals of African descent.
Hgb G is usually clinically benign but may be associated with mild anemia.
Hemoglobins exhibit different migration patterns in alkaline versus acidic electrophoresis conditions.
So a combination of 2 procedures can be used in tandem to identify the hemoglobin variants.
Yeasts are eukaryotic unicellular microorganisms of the kingdom Fungi with about 1,500 species.
Most reproduce asexually by budding, although a few do so by binary fission.
Budding yeasts possess either one (haploid) or two (diploid) genomes and they reproduce by forming buds (hence the name) during mitosis.
Coxsackie (virus) is a cytolytic virus of the Picornaviridae family, an enterovirus (a group containing the polioviruses, coxsackieviruses, and echoviruses).
Coxsackieviruses are divided into group A and group B viruses based on early observations of their pathogenicity in mice.
Group A coxsackieviruses were noted to cause a flaccid paralysis, which was caused by generalized myositis, while group B coxsackieviruses were noted to cause a spastic paralysis due to focal muscle injury and degeneration of neuronal tissue.
At least 23 serotypes (1-22, 24) of group A and six serotypes (1-6) of group B are recognized.
The family Culicidae (stinging mosquitoes), to which Aedes communis belongs, is found almost all over Europe, in North America, Asia and Japan.
Allergen exposure occurs through bites and possibly via fragments in dust.
Tumor necrosis factor receptor superfamily member 13B, also known as TNFRSF13B or more commonly as TACI, is a transmembrane receptor protein found predominantly on the surface of B cells, which are an important part of the immune system.
Undermining of a wound refers to tissue destruction that extends under the intact wound edge.
The wound is larger at its base (wound bed) than at the skin surface.
With pressure ulcers, undermining may be caused by a bacterial infection or associated with osteomyelitis.
Pseudomonas is a genus of gamma proteobacteria, belonging to the larger family of pseudomonads.
Recently, 16S rRNA sequence analysis has redefined the taxonomy of many bacterial species.
As a result the genus Pseudomonas includes strains formerly classified in the genera Chryseomonas and Flavimonas.
Other strains previously classified in the genus Pseudomonas are now classified in the genera Burkholderia and Ralstonia.
Digitoxin is a cardiac glycoside.
It has similar structure and effects to digoxin (though the effects are longer-lasting).
Unlike digoxin (which is eliminated from the body via the kidneys), it is eliminated via the liver, so could be used in patients with poor or erratic kidney function.
However, it is now rarely used in current UK medical practice.
Whilst there have been several controlled trials which have shown digoxin to be effective in a proportion of patients treated for heart failure, there is not the same strong evidence base for digitoxin, although it is presumed to be similarly effective.
Toxicity:Digitoxin exhibits similar toxic effects to the more-commonly used digoxin, namely: anorexia, nausea, vomiting, diarrhoea, confusion, visual disturbances, and cardiac arrhythmias.
Anti-digoxin antibody fragments, the specific treatment for digoxin poisoning, are also effective in serious digitoxin toxicity.
Vimentin gene methylation is stool based DNA test for the dection of colon cancer.
The SNAP index is a quantitative measure of the depth of anesthesia, specifically the level of consciousness.
It is based on both low and high-frequency EEG analysis.
Index values range from 0 to 100, 100 reflecting the awake state and 0 reflecting no measurable cortical activity.
Probably the world's most widely used salad vegetable, Lettuce is thought to have originated in the Mediterranean region in the form of Prickly Lettuce.
It is recorded as having been served in Persia in 400 BC.
Lettuce allergy is not frequently reported in the literature, but is found in clinical practice, predominantly in the southern part of Europe.
Lettuce may induce symptoms of food allergy, in particular oral allergy syndrome, in sensitised individuals.
Adverse reactions may be severe, resulting in anaphylaxis.
A non-depolarizing neuromuscular blocking agent with short duration of action.
Its lack of significant cardiovascular effects and its lack of dependence on good kidney function for elimination provide clinical advantage over alternate non-depolarizing neuromuscular blocking agents.
Peanut agglutinin (PNA) is plant lectin protein derived from the fruits of Arachis hypogaea.
Peanut agglutinin may also be referred to as Arachis hypogaea lectin.
Lectins recognise and bind particular sugar sequences in carbohydrates; peanut agglutinin binds the carbohydrate sequence Gal-β(1-3)-GalNAc.
The name "peanut agglutinin" originates from its ability to stick together (agglutinate) cells, such as neuramidase-treated erythrocytes, which have glycoproteins or glycolipids on their surface which include the Gal-β(1-3)-GalNAc carbohydrate sequence.
Because peanut agglutinin specifically binds a particular carbohydrate sequence it finds use in a range of methods for cell biology and biochemistry.
For example in PNA-affinity chromatography the binding specificity of peanut agglutinin is used to isolate glycosylated molecules which have the sugar sequence Gal-β(1-3)-GalNAc.
Peanut agglutinin activity is inhibited by lactose and galactose which compete for the binding site.
Other uses include Potent anti-T cell activity, distinguishing between human lymphocyte subsets, tumour tissue determination for transitional mucosa malignancies, identification of mammalian-infective metacyclic promastigote Leishmania major parasites from other life cycle forms also found in the sandfly host.
Trimethobenzamide (Tebamide, Tigan) is an antiemetic used to prevent nausea and vomiting.
It is often prescribed for patients with gastroenteritis, medication-induced nausea, and other illnesses.
Trimethobenzamide is generally considered the most potent antiemetic that does not have effects on the serotonergic, dopaminergic, or histaminergic systems, so it has a lower likelihood of causing undesired side effects.
There is only ONE species in the genus
Tetrahydrocannabinol is the main psychoactive substance found in the cannabis plant.
In pure form it is a glassy solid when cold and becomes viscous and sticky if warmed.
THC is poorly soluble in water, but is highly soluble in most organic solvents such as ethanol or hexane.
As in the case of nicotine and caffeine, THC's most likely function in cannabis is to protect the plant from herbivores or pathogens.
Dronabinol is a synthetic form of delta-9-THC. .
RNA polymerase I (also called Pol I) is, in eukaryotes, the only enzyme that transcribes ribosomal RNA (excluding 5S rRNA, which is synthesized by RNA Polymerase III), a type of RNA that accounts for over 50% of the total RNA synthesized in a cell.
CD20 is a non-glycosylated phosphoprotein expressed on the surface of all mature B-cells.
Membrane-spanning 4-domains, subfamily A, member 1, also known as MS4A1, is a human gene.
This gene encodes a member of the membrane-spanning 4A gene family.
Members of this nascent protein family are characterized by common structural features and similar intron/exon splice boundaries and display unique expression patterns among hematopoietic cells and nonlymphoid tissues.
This gene encodes a B-lymphocyte surface molecule which plays a role in the development and differentiation of B-cells into plasma cells.
This family member is localized to 11q12, among a cluster of family members.
Alternative splicing of this gene results in two transcript variants which encode the same protein.
Source material: Fillet, without skin
The HNA 3 system has one antigen, HNA-3a, that is expressed by neutrophils, lymphocytes, platelets and other cells.
A high-molecular-weight glycoprotein isolated from fetal connective tissue, placenta, and amniotic fluid.
It can be useful in the detection of preterm labor.
Trazodone (also sold under the brand names Desyrel, Oleptro, Beneficat, Deprax, Desirel, Molipaxin, Thombran, Trazorel, Trialodine, Trittico, and Mesyrel) is an antidepressant of the serotonin antagonist and reuptake inhibitor (SARI) class.
It is a phenylpiperazine compound.
Trazodone also has anxiolytic and hypnotic effects.
Trazodone has considerably fewer prominent anticholinergic (dry mouth, constipation, tachycardia) and sexual side effects than most of the tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs).
Direct Antihuman Globulin (DAT) detects in vivo sensitivity of red blood cells using reagent specific for C3 and C4
Cerebroside sulfatase measures enzyme activity released per mg protein per hr.
Used to detext metachromatic leukodystrophy and its carrier state.
Usually seen as part of a battery of lysomal enzymes.
Atopobium vaginae is a species of Actinobacteria within the genus Atopobium.
A. vaginae are anaerobic, Gram-positive bacteria associated with a wide variety of infections, including bacterial vaginosis.
A. vaginae is known to be resistant to several antimicrobial treatments, including metronidazole and clindamycin.
Ailanthus altissimacommonly known as tree of heaven, ailanthus, or in Standard Mandarin as chouchun is a deciduous tree in the Simaroubaceae family.
It is native to both northeast and central China and Taiwan.
This test detects HIV-1 core protein, p24, antigen and/or HIV-1 groups M and O Ab and/or HIV-2 Ab in serum or plasma as one combined positive or negative result based on a signal to cut-off (S/CO) value of 1.00.
The p24 antigen can be detected in HIV infected persons before seroconversion, thus reducing the window of non-detectability in early infection.
Viral transmembrane proteins (TMP) are among the first to appear at seroconversion and remain strong throughout the asymptomatic and symptomatic stages of HIV infection.
They are the principle target of HIV antibody tests.
A reversible inhibitor of monoamine oxidase type A; (RIMA); (see MONOAMINE OXIDASE INHIBITORS) that has antidepressive properties.
Thiopurine S-methyltransferase (TPMT;) is involved in the metabolism of all thiopurines and is one of the main enzymes that inactivates thiopurine drugs (e.g., Thioguanine, mercaptopurine, azathioprine).
In all patients receiving thiopurine, there is a risk of bone marrow suppression.
This adverse effect is dose-dependent and may be reversed by reducing the dose of thiopurine.
However, individuals who inherit two no function TPMT alleles universally experience life-threatening myelosuppression.
Polycystin-2 is a protein that in humans is encoded by the PKD2 gene.
Mutations in this gene have been associated with autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease.
This gene encodes a member of the polycystin protein family, called TRPP1, previously known as polycystin-2, PC2 or APKD2.
TRPP1 contains multiple transmembrane domains, and cytoplasmic N- and C-termini.
The protein may be an integral membrane protein involved in cell-cell/matrix interactions.
TRPP1 may function in renal tubular development, morphology, and function, and may modulate intracellular calcium homoeostasis and other signal transduction pathways.
This protein interacts with polycystin 1 to produce cation-permeable currents
Elevated dicarboxytetradecenoylcarnitine (C14:1-DC) is a marker for Very long-chain acyl-CoA dehydrogenase (VLCAD) deficiency, a fatty acid oxidation disorder.
Renal tubular epithelial cell casts reflect damage to the tubules.
They are seen in renal tubular necrosis (for example, caused by nephrotoxic drugs, heavy metal poisoning, or ethylene glycol), viral disease (such as CMV nephritis), and with transplant rejection.
Hardin Memorial Healthlink, Elizabethtown, KY
Sufentanil and alfentanil are opioids used as a powerful analgesics for anesthesia and palliative care.
Sufentanil and alfentanil are metabolized in the liver to norsufentanil by oxidative N-dealkylation by cytochrome P450.
Methylhydrazines are hydrazines that have additional methyl groups.
They are usually divided into two groups: Monomethylhydrazine and Dimethylhydrazines
Barley pollen g201 should be differentiated from Barley the food, f6.
A grass species producing pollen, which often induces hayfever, asthma and conjunctivitis in sensitised individuals.
Barley is probably native to the Middle East, from Afghanistan to northern India.
It first came under cultivation 12,000 or more years ago.
It is widely cultivated in temperate areas of the world for its edible seed.
A major group of polyphyletic organisms of extremely varied morphology and physiology, mostly photosynthetic, but distinguished from plants by their complex form of sexual reproduction.
They are freshwater and marine, terrestrial and subterranean; some are neustonic (living at the interface of water and the atmosphere).
They live in various protozoa and within other plants.
They live also in soil and on soil surfaces, on long-persistent snows, and in Antarctic rocks.
Thermophilic algae inhabit hot springs.
(From Webster, 3d ed; from Bold & Wynne, Introduction to the Algae, 2d ed, pp1-6)
CD24, a glycoprotein expressed at the surface of most B lymphocytes and differentiating neuroblasts.
This gene encodes a sialoglycoprotein that is expressed on mature granulocytes and in many B cells.
The encoded protein is anchored via a glycosyl phosphatidylinositol (GPI) link to the cell surface.
An alignment of this gene's sequence finds genomic locations with similarity on chromosomes 3p26, 15q21, 15q22, 20q11.2 and Yq11.1.
Whether transcription, and corresponding translation, occurs at each of these other genomic locations needs to be experimentally determined (source: NCBI).
Is also known as Heat Stable Antigen (HAS).
Ecgonine methyl ester (EME) is a major metabolite of cocaine, a wide spread illicit drug of abuse.
Gum arabic has been used for at least 4,000 years.
The substance is a gummy exudate derived from trees of the species Acacia senegal and its close relatives.
The trees are found in Sudan, Senegal, Nigeria and other semi-arid regions.
The dried exudate is odourless, colorless and tasteless, and often occurs in response to infection.
To stimulate production of this exudate, wounds are intentionally made.
A distinguishing characteristic among natural gums is that Gum arabic dissolves rapidly in water.
Gum arabic may uncommonly induce symptoms of asthma, allergic rhinitis, eczema, contact dermatitis and food allergy in sensitised individuals.
Giardia lamblia, or Giardia intestinalis, is a pear-shaped flagellated parasitic protozoa that attaches to the intestinal epithelium and feeds on mucous secretions.
The organism is often non-pathogenic and found in completely asymptomatic individuals.
Individuals with giardiasis, a colonization of the G. lamblia in the small intestines, can develop diarrhea and abdominal pain, occasionally vomiting and fever.
Cystatin C is a miniscule protein that is secreted by all cells containing a nucleus.
Cystatin C is usually filtered out of the blood by the kidneys and broken down without being excreted in the urine.
Because cystatin C is supposed to be processed by the kidneys, an excess amount of cystatin C could be a sign of kidney disease/malfunction.
Cystatin C content in the blood can be tested as an alternative method to testing creatinine in evaluating kidney function.
Furthermore, a low blood cystatin C concentration could indicate arthritis, atherosclerosis, aortic aneurism, emphysema, and cancer.
Ureaplasma parvum is a mycoplasm that includes select serovars that were previously typed as Ureaplasma urealyticum.
Serovars 1, 3, 6 and 14 are now part of species U. parvum based on their slightly smaller genome size.
U. parvum is associated with various diseases, including male urethritis, chorioamnionitis, adverse pregnancy outcomes, neonatal meningitis, neonatal respiratory distress syndrome (RDS), pelvic inflammatory disease, and pyelonephritis.
Methdilazine (Dilosyn, Tacaryl) is a first-generation antihistamine with anticholinergic properties of the phenothiazine class.
Tricyclic antidepressant similar to IMIPRAMINE, but with more antihistaminic and sedative properties.
Ledipasvir is a hepatitis C virus (HCV) NS5A inhibiting antiviral drug for the treatment of HCV.
It is used in combination with sofosbuvir, and approved by the FDA for the treatment of chronic hepatitis C genotype 1 infection in adults.
Voxilaprevir is a hepatitis C virus (HCV) NS3/4A protease inhibitor that is active against HCV genotypes 1-6 ("pangenotypic").
In addition, the common resistance-conferring mutations of HCV genotype 1 NS3 have been shown to confer less resistance to voxilprevir than to other protease inhibitors.
Voxilaprevir is used in combination with sofosbuvir, an NS5B nucleotide inhibitor, and velpatasvir, an NS5A inhibitor, to treat chronic HCV infection.
Phenothiazines are a family of chemicals which include a host of antipsychotic medications such as: Chlorpromazine Promazine Triflupromazine Levomepromazine Methotrimeprazine Mesoridazine Thioridazine Fluphenazine Perphenazine Prochlorperazine Trifluoperazine
Found on mature B-cells.
Associated with B-cell CLL and Nodal small lymphocytic lymphoma Usually absent in mantle cell lymphoma
Scedosporium apiospermum is a common filamentous fungus that is present in soil, polluted waters, and sewage throughout the world.
Opportunistic infections by S apiospermum have become more common in extremely immunosuppressed patients and are resistant to antifungal medications that are used to treat more common fungal organisms such as Candida and Aspergillus.
Common sites for infection include sinuses, lungs, skin, soft tissue, central nervous system, and bones.
Systemic spread of infection is often fatal.
S apiospermum was originally thought to be a form of Pseudoallescheria boydii, another opportunistic pathogen.
The apnea-hypopnea index (AHI) is an index of sleep apnea severity that combines apneas and hypopneas.
The apneas (pauses in breathing) must last for at least 10 seconds and are associated with a decrease in blood oxygenation.
Combining these gives an overall sleep apnea severity score that evaluates both number sleep disruptions and degree of oxygen desaturation (low blood level).
The AHI, as with the separate apnea index and hypopnea index, is calculated by dividing the number of events by the number of hours of sleep.
(AHI values are typically categorized as 5-15/hr = Mild; 15-30/hr = Moderate; and > 30/h = Severe.)
Found on all functional T-cells; Absent on normal NK cells Associated with mature T-cell neoplasms.
Immature T-cell neoplasms may have cytoplasmic CD3, without cell surface CD3
Complex carbohydrates are made up of sugar molecules that are strung together in long, complex chains.
Complex carbohydrates are found in foods such as peas, beans, whole grains, and vegetables.
Both simple and complex carbohydrates are turned to glucose (blood sugar) in the body and are used as energy.
Glucose is used in the cells of the body and in the brain.
Any unused glucose is stored in the liver and muscles as glycogen for use later.
Complex carbohydrate foods provide vitamins, minerals, and fiber that are important to the health of an individual.
Complex carbohydrate rich foods include whole grains, brown bread, brown rice, vegetables and beans.
The measles virus (MeV) nucleoprotein (N) gene is analyzed for the detection of MeV in clinical specimens.
The N gene is also used for the genetic characterization of MeV. Genetic classification is an important part of laboratory surveillance for measles and to provide support for molecular epidemiologic studies.
Since endemic genotypes can change quickly, constant monitoring of cases and outbreaks is necessary.
Crystals are formed in urine when solutes precipitate out of solution.
Crystals are typically absent in freshly voided urine.
Normally they precipitate as the urine cools or after it is refrigerated.
Most crystals are not indicative of a pathological process, but when present in freshly voided urine, they indicate that crystals are forming within the body which is clinically important.
When crystals develop within the nephrons, serious tubular damage is possible.
Since the presence of some crystals in the urine are considered pathological, it is crucial that they be correctly identified and reported.
Crystal identification is made based on microscopic physical appearance and urine pH.
Ara h 9 is a member of a class of heat stable proteins with strong cross-reactivity among various plant foods (known as lipid transfer proteins).
Lipid transfer proteins are often associated with the oral allergy syndrome and severe systemic reactions, although this has not been specifically documented in the case of peanut LTPs
Antithrombin is a natural inhibitor of thrombin as well as factors Xa, IXa, XIa, XIIa, and kallikrein.
Heparan sulfate is naturally located in vivo on the endothelial cell surface.
Antithrombin deficiency is present in 0.17% of the general population.
It accounts for 1.1% of unselected patients with venous thrombosis and up to 5% of patients younger than 70 years with thrombosis.
Over 127 mutations in the antithrombin gene are known to cause hereditary antithrombin deficiency.
Individuals heterozygous for antithrombin deficiency have a fivefold increased risk for venous thrombosis.
Homozygous deficiencies are incompatible with life, except for patients with type II deficiency due to heparin-binding mutations.
Heterozygotes generally have antithrombin levels between 45-75%, although levels as high as 78% have been observed.
The risk for thrombosis is further increased in the presence of a second risk factor.
The age at onset of thrombosis is usually between 10-50 years (peak 15-35 years) in heterozygotes.
The risk of arterial thrombosis remains uncertain, but 2% of individuals developed arterial thrombosis in one study.
Information from Jacobs and DeMott Laboratory Test Handbook, 5th edition.
Bladder cells line the inside of the bladder and are the most common origin of bladder cancer.
The distance between A point and Nasion perpendicular to the Frankfort Horizontal Plane
The BMPR1A gene encodes the bone morphogenetic protein receptor 1A protein.
More than 60 mutations in the BMPR1A gene have been found to cause juvenile polyposis syndrome.
Most BMPR1A gene mutations result in the production of an abnormally short, nonfunctional protein.
As a result, the BMPR1A protein cannot bind to ligands in the TGF-β pathway.
This disruption in binding interferes with the activation of the SMAD protein complex.
This inactive complex is not transported to the nucleus, where it is needed to regulate cell growth and the activity of certain genes.
Unregulated cell growth can lead to polyp formation in people with juvenile polyposis syndrome.
Streptobacillus moniliformis is a gram-negative, non-acid fast rod that is the causative agent of Rat bite fever in North America.
Symptoms of Rat bite fever include fever, rigors, and polyarthralgias, and the disease has a 10% mortality rate if not treated.
Approximately 10% of known rat bites result in recognized human infections.
The ALS2 gene (amyotrophic lateral sclerosis 2) is located on chromosome 2q33.1.
The protein encoded by this gene contains an ATS1/RCC1-like domain, a RhoGEF domain, and a vacuolar protein sorting 9 (VPS9) domain, all of which are guanine-nucleotide exchange factors that activate members of the Ras superfamily of GTPases.
The protein functions as a guanine nucleotide exchange factor for the small GTPase RAB5.
The protein localizes with RAB5 on early endosomal compartments, and functions as a modulator for endosomal dynamics.
Mutations in this gene result in several forms of juvenile lateral sclerosis and infantile-onset ascending spastic paralysis.
Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
Citrobacter koseri is a member of the genus Citrobacter which are Gram-negative bacteria in the Enterobacteriaceae family.
It is often isolated from clinical specimens (urine, sputum, blood).
It is known to cause significant opportunistic infections and has been associated with devastating neonatal meningitis and brain abscesses in neonates and immunocompromised individuals.
"Other hemoglobin" refers to hemoglobin pattern that are not routinely found.
Glutaraldehyde is an organic compound with the formula CH2(CH2CHO)2.
A pungent colorless oily liquid, glutaraldehyde is used to disinfect medical and dental equipment.
It is also used for industrial water treatment and as a chemical preservative.
Transthoracic measurement of electrical impedance (influenced by respiration and other factors), often used to measure respiratory rate, among other phenomona.
A promegakaryocyte arises from a megakaryoblast and differentiates into a megakaryocyte, which releases platelets.
An enzyme catalyzing the transfer of a phosphate group from 3-phospho-D-glycerate in the presence of ATP to yield 3-phospho-D-glyceroyl phosphate and ADP. .
During myocardial contraction, as the wall shortens, it also thickens and warrants assessment of all parameters as useful for evaluation of contractile function: positive strain (radial thickening), negative strain (circumferential shortening and longitudinal shortening).
Longitudinal strains are reduced in patients with myocardial infarctions, correlate with infarct size and ejection fraction, and predict left ventricular remodeling and clinical events.
Longitudinal imaging planes may include four chamber, two chamber, and long axis, which correspond to the standard apical four-chamber, apical two-chamber, and apical long-axis views used for echocardiography.
Global longitudinal strain (GLS) may be generated from both speckle-tracking echocardiography and the newer semi-automated feature-tracking cardiac magnetic resonance (FT CMR) software applied to routine clinical steady-state free precession imaging.
These rapid and reproducible measures of GLS may detect serial changes in myocardial function using CMR or echocardiography, which are important for following progression of disease or response to medical interventions.
GLS is a sensitive predictor of prognosis for patients with cardiac amyloidosis, and impaired GLS is related to unfavorable cardiovascular events in heart failure patients.
Values for normal longitudinal strain are negative.
Amphetaminil (Aponeuron, AN-1) is a stimulant drug derived from amphetamine, which was developed in the 1970s and used for the treatment of obesity, ADHD, and narcolepsy.
It has largely been withdrawn from clinical use following problems with abuse.
The PLP1 gene (proteolipid protein 1) is located on chromosome Xq22.
This gene encodes a transmembrane proteolipid protein that is the predominant myelin protein present in the central nervous system.
It may play a role in the compaction, stabilization, and maintenance of myelin sheaths, as well as in oligodendrocyte development and axonal survival.
Mutations in this gene cause X-linked Pelizaeus-Merzbacher disease and spastic paraplegia type 2.
Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms or having different 5' UTRs, have been identified for this gene.
Neisseria gonorrhoeae are gram-negative cocci usually seen in pairs with the adjacent sides flattened.
Pili, filament-like appendages, extend from the cell surface and have a role in adherence.
Gonorrhea is usually acquired by sexual contact.
Men and women aged 15-29 have the highest incidence of gonorrhea.
Number of sexual partners, sexual practices and preference, condom use and population mobility contribute to disease incidence.
The most frequent sites are the cervix, urethra, rectum, pharynx and conjunctiva.
The most common symptom in men is discharge that may be scanty and clear or cloudy to copious and purulent, and often dysuria.
Asymptomatic men are an important reservoir for transmission.
Endocervical infection is the most common form of infection in women.
Ocular infections occur most commonly in newborns who are exposed in the birth canal and can lead to corneal scarring or perforation.
Gonococcal bacteremia may lead to disseminated infection including pelvic inflammatory disease in as many as 15 percent of women, leading to an increased probability of infertility and ectopic pregnancy.
While antibiotics have successfully treated gonorrhea for decades, N. gonorrhoeae has developed antimicrobial resistance to every drug used for treatment.
The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention recommends combination therapy using two antimicrobials with different mechanisms of action (e.g., a cephalosporin plus azithromycin) to improve treatment efficacy and potentially slow the spread of resistance to cephalosporins.
The chemokine (C-C motif) receptor 2 (CCR2) gene is located on chromosome 3p21.
A single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) of G to A at position 190 changes amino acid valine (GTC) to isoleucine (ATC) within codon 64 (CCR2-V64I).
This change is associated with a reduced risk of progression to AIDS in HIV-infected individuals, renal transplant rejection, multiple sclerosis and development of breast cancer.
The CCR2-V64I polymorphism may also reduce the risk of cervical cancer in some women, but study findings are conflicting.
The activity of ceftaroline is broadened to include beta lactamase producing gram negative bacteria by the addition of avibactam.
The volume of gas delivered by the gas delivery system, such as an anesthesia gas machine or ventilator, to a single patient during a single procedure.
Raltegravir (brand name ISENTRESS) is used in combination with other medications to treat human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection.
Raltegravir is in a class of medications called HIV integrase strand transfer inhibitors.
It works by slowing the spread of HIV in the body.
Raltegravir does not cure HIV infection and may not prevent patients from developing HIV-related illnesses.
Raltegravir does not prevent affected individuals from spreading HIV.
Plasma 21-deoxycortisol (21DF) is an excellent marker of 21-hydroxylase deficiency.
Currently, it is the only marker able to detect heterozygous carriers with 21-hydroxylase deficiency after Adrenocorticotropic Hormone (ACTH) stimulation.
The syndrome of congenital adrenal hyperplasia (CAH) comprises the spectrum of autosomal recessive enzymatic disorders that impair cortisol biosynthesis.
The hormonal pattern and clinical manifestations result from hyperstimulation of the adrenal cortex by excessive production of ACTH, untied from the negative feedback exerted by reduced cortisol levels, and the ultimate accumulation of F precursors and androgens.
These abnormalities predispose the female newborn to ambiguous genitalia (female pseudohermaphroditism) and precocious puberty that may occur in both sexes.
CAH due to 21-hydroxylase deficiency (21OHD) comprises nearly 90% of all cases, with an estimated worldwide incidence of 1 in 14,000 live births.
Because 21-deoxycortisol (21DF) is an 11b-hydroxylase (11bOH) derivative of 17-hydroxyprogesterone (17OHP), its serum levels are parallel and proportionally elevated in patients with 21OHD but decreased or undetectable in those with 11b-hydroxylase deficiency (11bOHD).
Due to the marked buildup of 17OHP in 21OHD, this precursor steroid can proceed directly to 11-hydroxylation, producing distinct elevations of 21DF. ,
Lactulose is a synthetic, non-digestible sugar used in the treatment of chronic constipation and hepatic encephalopathy, a complication of liver disease.
It is a disaccharide (double-sugar) formed from one molecule each of the simple sugars (monosaccharides) fructose and galactose.
It is produced commercially by isomerization of lactose and is broadly classified as an osmotic laxative.
In sensitive individuals, such as the elderly or people with reduced kidney function, excess lactulose dosage can result in dehydration and electrolytic disturbances such as high sodium levels.
The distance between the incisal edges of the upper and lower central incisors measured perpendicular to the occlusal plane
Allo-tetrahydrocorticosterone (5a-tetrahydrocorticosterone) is highly sensitive to adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH) secretion.
High levels of 5a-tetrahydrocorticosterone are a warning sign of hypertension.
Pivalate ester analog of AMPICILLIN.
Cortisol is a glucocorticoid produced in the adrenal cortex.
A synthetic version of this same chemical is called hydrocortisone and manufactured as medication.
Cortisol is not to be confused with cortisone, a closely related compound with much less (PubChem calls it "inactive") biologic activity.
Cortisone is also offered as a drug, and it is converted to cortisol (the active form) in the liver.
They both have a circadian rhythm with peak in the AM (around 8AM) and trough in the evening (around midnight), but this shifts according to sleep habits (work shifts).
The morning measurement, which should be high, is most useful for diagnosing Addison's disease (too little cortisol) and the evening measurement, which should be low, is the most useful for diagnosing Cushing's disease (too much cortisol).
Salivary cortisol may be a more sensitive measure than serum or plasma.
Natural metabolic intermediary of cortisol
Gluten is a general name for the proteins gliadin and glutenin that are found in wheat (durum, emmer, spelt, farina, farro, Kamut, khorasan, wheat and einhorn), rye, barley, and triticale.
Gluten gives elasticity to dough, helping it rise and to keep its shape, and often gives the final product a chewy texture.
Some people are gluten-intolerant, meaning their bodies produce an abnormal immune response breaking down gluten during digestion.
Gluten-related disorders is an umbrella term for diseases triggered by gluten, which include coeliac disease, non-celiac gluten sensitivity, wheat allergy, gluten ataxia and dermatitis herpetiformis.
Methandrostenolone (metandienone, methandienone, Averbol, Dianabol, Danabol, DBOL) is an orally-effective anabolic steroid.
It was used as an aid to muscle growth by bodybuilders until its ban by the FDA under the Controlled Substances Act.
Methandrostenolone is subject to extensive hepatic biotransformation by a variety of enzymatic pathways.
The primary urinary metabolites are detectable for up to 4 days, and a recently discovered hydroxymethyl metabolite is found in urine for up to 19 days after a single 5 mg oral dose.
Several of the metabolites are unique to methandrostenolone.
Methods for detection in urine specimens usually involve gas chromatography-mass spectrometry.
Broad spectrum antifungal agent used for long periods at high doses, especially in immunosuppressed patients.
Nitrofurantoin is an antibiotic usually used in treating urinary tract infections.
Crystal casts are casts that contain crystals within the matrix.
They are rarely found and, when detected, usually contain calcium oxalate or sulfonamide crystals.
Crystal casts are associated with renal calculi formation or drug precipitation due to insufficient hydration.(Brunzel 2013)
The anterior-inferior angle formed by the Frankfort Horizontal plane and the Mandibular plane, using Menton (Constructed Gonion-Menton)
The enzyme UDP-glucose 4-epimerase, also known as UDP-galactose 4-epimerase or GALE, is a homodimeric epimerase found in bacterial, plant, and mammalian cells.
This enzyme performs the final step in the Leloir pathway of galactose metabolism, catalyzing the reversible conversion of UDP-galactose to UDP-glucose.
GALE tightly binds nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide (NAD+), a co-factor required for catalytic activity.
Additionally, human and some bacterial GALE isoforms reversibly catalyze the formation of UDP-N-acetylgalactosamine (UDP-GalNAc) from UDP-N-acetylglucosamine (UDP-GlcNAc) in the presence of NAD+, an initial step in glycoprotein or glycolipid synthesis.
Human GALE deficiency or dysfunction results in Type III galactosemia, which may exist in a mild (peripheral) or more severe (generalized) form.
Zinc transporter 8 (ZnT8) is an islet beta-cell secretory membrane protein.
ZnT8 autoantibodies (ZnT8A) are present in type 1 diabetes mellitus (DM) and are a marker for disease.
When combined with established autoantibody markers, including glutamate decarboxylase (GADA), protein tyrosine phosphatase IA2 (IA2A), antibodies to insulin (IAA), and islet cytoplasmic autoantibodies (ICA), the ZnT8 antibody test improves diagnostic sensitivity in suspected cases of type 1 DM.
The detection of plasma or blood ketosterol bile acid precursors, specifically 7alpha-hydroxy-4-cholesten-3-one, 7alpha,12alpha-dihydroxy-4-cholesten-3-one and 7alpha,12alpha-dihydroxy-5beta-cholestan-3-one, is sensitive for the diagnosis of cerebrotendinous xanthomatosis (CTX), a rare autosomal recessive disorder of bile acid synthesis that causes neurodegeneration and premature death.
CTX is associated with a deficiency in the mitochondria enzyme, sterol 27-hydroxylase (CYP27A1), which converts cholesterol to bile acids.
Symptoms include diarrhea and juvenile cataracts in children, progressing to tendon and cerebral xanthomas with neurological deterioration and death.
Because there is an effective therapy (oral replacement of chenodeoxycholic acid, the main bile acid deficient in CTX), it is critical to diagnose as early as possible.
Prior to the more sensitive ketosterol bile acid precursors, diagnosis had depended on measurement of elevated 5-alpha-cholestanol .
A species of gram-negative bacteria (currently incertae sedis) causing multisystem disease in CATTLE.
Salsola kali also known as Saltwort is a pollen-producing weed which may induce hayfever, asthma and conjunctivitis in sensitized patients.
Dermatitis may occur with direct contact due to mechanical irritation from the prickly floral bracts.
A genus of flagellate protozoa comprising several species that are pathogenic for humans.
Organisms of this genus have an amastigote and a promastigote stage in their life cycles.
As a result of enzymatic studies this single genus has been divided into two subgenera: Leishmania leishmania and Leishmania viannia.
Species within the Leishmania leishmania subgenus include: L. aethiopica, L. arabica, L. donovani, L. enrietti, L. gerbilli, L. hertigi, L. infantum, L. major, L. mexicana, and L. tropica.
The following species are those that compose the Leishmania viannia subgenus: L. braziliensis, L. guyanensis, L. lainsoni, L. naiffi, and L. shawi.
Enterococcus is a genus of lactic acid bacteria of the phylum Firmicutes.
Enterococci are Gram-positive cocci that often occur in pairs (diplococci) or short chains, and are difficult to distinguish from streptococci on physical characteristics alone.
Two species are common commensal organisms in the intestines of humans: E. faecalis (90-95%) and E. faecium (5-10%).
Rare clusters of infections occur with other species, including E. casseliflavus, E. gallinarum, and E. raffinosus.
Important clinical infections caused by Enterococcus include urinary tract infections, bacteremia, bacterial endocarditis, diverticulitis, and meningitis.
Sensitive strains of these bacteria can be treated with ampicillin and vancomycin.
From a medical standpoint, an important feature of this genus is the high level of intrinsic antibiotic resistance.
Some enterococci are intrinsically resistant to β-lactam-based antibiotics (penicillins,cephalosporins,carbapenems), as well as many aminoglycosides.
In the last two decades, particularly virulent strains of Enterococcus that are resistant to vancomycin (vancomycin-resistant Enterococcus, or VRE) have emerged in nosocomial infections of hospitalized patients, especially in the US.
Other developed countries, such as the UK, have been spared this epidemic, and, in 2005, Singapore managed to halt an epidemic of VRE.
VRE may be treated with quinupristin/dalfopristin (Synercid) with response rates of approximately 70%.
Tigecycline has also been shown to have anti-enterococcal activity as has rifampicin.
Enterococcal meningitis is a rare complication of neurosurgery.
It often requires treatment with intravenous or intrathecal vancomycin, yet it is debatable as to whether its use has any impact on outcome: the removal of any neurological devices is a crucial part of the management of these infections.
New epidemiological evidence has shown that enterococci are major infectious agent in chronic bacterial prostatitis.
Enterococci are able to form biofilm in the prostate gland making their eradication difficult.
The Powassan virus is a tick-borne encephalitis virus related to the classic TBE flavivirus.
This disease had its earliest origins in the town of Powassan, Ontario, found in a young boy who eventually died from it.
Powassan virus is transmitted by I.cookei among small mammals in eastern Canada and the United States, where it has been responsible for 20 recognized cases of human disease.
Other ticks may transmit the virus in a wider geographic area, and there is some concern that I.scapularis (also called I.dammini ), a competent vector in the laboratory, may become involved as it becomes more prominent in the United States.
Orbifloxacin (brand name Orbax) is a fluoroquinolone antibiotic which is approved for use in dogs, marketed by Schering-Plough Animal Health.
Sildenafil citrate, sold as Viagra, Revatio and under various other trade names, is a drug used to treat erectile dysfunction and pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH).
It was developed and is being marketed by the pharmaceutical company Pfizer.
It acts by inhibiting cGMP specific phosphodiesterase type 5, an enzyme that regulates blood flow in the penis.
Zidovudine (INN) or azidothymidine (AZT) (also called ZDV) is a nucleoside analog reverse-transcriptase inhibitor (NRTI), a type of antiretroviral drug used for the first clinically proven successful treatment of HIV/AIDS infectiousness.
Staphylococcus epidermidis, a coagulase negative staphylococcus (CoNS), has been historically viewed as an innocuous commensal organism of human skin.
However, it has emerged as an important nosocomial opportunistic pathogen and accounts for up to 90% of all hospital-acquired CoNS infections.
S. epidermidis is able to form biofilms on indwelling devices, and isolates are often resistant to a multitude of antibiotics which complicates effective treatment.
The N236T mutation is associated with Adefovir resistance
Maraviroc is a C-C Chemokine Receptor Type 5 (CCR5) antagonist active against the human immunodeficiency virus (HIV).
It is currently used in a small proportion of antiretroviral regimens and primarily for patients with CCR5-tropic strains of HIV.
Maraviroc is associated with increased alanine aminotransferase (ALT) levels in serum and several cases of hepatotoxicity.
A disorder of cardiac function caused by insufficient blood flow to the muscle tissue of the heart.
The decreased blood flow may be due to narrowing of the coronary arteries (CORONARY ARTERIOSCLEROSIS), to obstruction by a thrombus (CORONARY THROMBOSIS), or less commonly, to diffuse narrowing of arterioles and other small vessels within the heart.
Severe interruption of the blood supply to the myocardial tissue may result in necrosis of cardiac muscle (MYOCARDIAL INFARCTION).
Gamma Hydroxybutyrate (4-hydroxybutanoic acid) is both a drug and a naturally occurring substance found in the body.
As a drug, it is approved for treatment of a rare form of narcolepsy, but is also being manufactured illegally.
GHB is considered a "date rape" drug because it can be mixed with a liquid and given to unsuspecting victims.
Peak plasma levels are attained approximately 30 minutes following administration.
GHB and its metabolites are often hard to detect as they quickly leave the body.
The species is primarily a soil fungus but has been found elsewhere such as in horse manure, plant remains, grains, vegetables and nuts.
It is often seen on soft fruit, fruit juice and marmalade.
Mucor is also the dominating mold found in floor dust in houses and is considered an indoor mold.
Anecdotal evidence suggests that M. racemosus is a common and important mould allergen that induces sensitisation and symptoms of asthma and allergic rhinitis in sensitised individuals.
M. racemosus has also been associated with causation of extrinsic allergic alveolitis.
Pineapple is a tropical fruit of a perennial herb.
Hundreds of varieties exist but only a few are commercially important.
Ingestion of Pineapple has been reported to cause asthma, rhinitis and gastrointestinal symptoms.
Angioedema and shock have also been observed.
One study reports that Pineapple is one of the most common self-reported triggers of atopic dermatitis
A semisynthetic cephalosporin antibiotic which can be administered intravenously or by suppository.
The drug is highly resistant to a broad spectrum of beta-lactamases and is active against a wide range of both aerobic and anaerobic gram-positive and gram-negative organisms.
It has few side effects and is reported to be safe and effective in aged patients and in patients with hematologic disorders.
An adenine nucleotide containing two phosphate groups esterified to the sugar moiety at the 5'-position.
Faropenem is an orally-active beta-lactam antibiotic belonging to the penem group.
It is resistant to some forms of extended-spectrum beta-lactamase.
It is marketed in many countries but not in the US as of 2013.
Veterinary Medicine: Nitrofurazone is a topical anti-infective drug used to treat superficial wounds, burns, ulcers, and skin infections.
When taken orally, Nitrofurazone has proven useful in the treatment of trypanosomiasis .
Mucopolysaccharidoses are a group of inherited metabolic diseases caused by the absence or malfunctioning of certain enzymes the body needs to break down molecules called glycosaminoglycans.
The FUS gene (FUS RNA binding protein) is located on chromosome 16p11.2.
This gene encodes a multifunctional protein component of the heterogeneous nuclear ribonucleoprotein (hnRNP) complex.
The hnRNP complex is involved in pre-mRNA splicing and the export of fully processed mRNA to the cytoplasm.
This protein belongs to the FET family of RNA-binding proteins which have been implicated in cellular processes that include regulation of gene expression, maintenance of genomic integrity and mRNA/microRNA processing.
Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants.
Defects in this gene result in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis type 6.
Summarization of Episode Note contains pertinent data about the provision of care for a patient over a specified period of time.
Examples include a Care Record Summary (CRS) and Continuity of Care Document (CCD).
CRS includes the summary of the episode, discharge and transfer.
CCD includes the most relevant administrative, demographic, and clinical information about a patient's healthcare, covering one or more healthcare encounters.
Such documents are commonly used in Transfer of Care scenarios.
A steroid of interest both because its biosynthesis in FUNGI is a target of ANTIFUNGAL AGENTS, notably AZOLES, and because when it is present in SKIN of animals, ULTRAVIOLET RAYS break a bond to result in ERGOCALCIFEROL.
The CCR5 gene (chemokine (C-C motif) receptor 5 (gene/pseudogene)) is located on chromosome 3p21.31.
This gene encodes a member of the beta chemokine receptor family, which is predicted to be a seven transmembrane protein similar to G protein-coupled receptors.
This protein is expressed by T cells and macrophages, and is known to be an important co-receptor for macrophage-tropic virus, including HIV, to enter host cells.
Defective alleles of this gene have been associated with the HIV infection resistance.
The ligands of this receptor include monocyte chemoattractant protein 2 (MCP-2), macrophage inflammatory protein 1 alpha (MIP-1 alpha), macrophage inflammatory protein 1 beta (MIP-1 beta) and regulated on activation normal T expressed and secreted protein (RANTES).
Expression of this gene was also detected in a promyeloblastic cell line, suggesting that this protein may play a role in granulocyte lineage proliferation and differentiation.
This gene is located at the chemokine receptor gene cluster region.
Two transcript variants encoding the same protein have been found for this gene.
The Common Reed is native to Eurasia and Africa, but is now widespread through much of the world, including the United States, Mexico, the West Indies, Chile, Argentina, and Australia.
Common reed pollen can induce asthma, allergic rhinitis and allergic conjunctivitis.
Anserine (beta -alanyl-N-methylhistidine) is a dipeptide.
Found in the skeletal muscle and brain of mammals, it is an antioxidant and helps reduce fatigue.
A glycoprotein secreted by the cells of the gastric glands that is required for the absorption of VITAMIN B 12.
Deficiency of intrinsic factor results in ANEMIA, PERNICIOUS.
Methomyl is a carbamate and cholinesterase inhibitor insecticide and acaricide used on vegetables, fruit crops, field crops, cotton, commercial ornamental plants, and in and around poultry houses and dairies.
It is both a contact and systemic insecticide and is not toxic to plants that absorb it.
Methomyl is a cholinesterase inhibitor that impacts the normal functioning of the nervous system.
Methomyl is extremely toxic to humans when it is ingested or absorbed through the eyes.
It is moderately toxic when it is inhaled and less toxic if exposed to the skin.
Symptoms of methomyl poisoning include weakness, blurred vision, headache, nausea, abdominal cramps, chest discomfort, constriction of pupils, sweating, muscle tremors, and reduced pulse rate.
Severe exposure to methomyl can result in twitching, giddiness, confusion, loss of muscle coordination, slurred speech, low blood pressure, heart irregularities, and loss of reflexes.
Methomyl can be fatal due to respiratory failure, respiratory muscle paralysis, severe constriction of the openings to the lungs, or all three.
Methomyl is toxic to fish, birds, aquatic invertebrates, and bees.
Soil microbes quickly break down methomyl.
Because of its high solubility in water, there is an increased risk for groundwater pollution.
Hepatitis A virus (Hep A or HAV) is an RNA virus that causes an acute infectious disease of the liver and is usually spread by the fecal-oral route.
It is transmitted by ingestion of contaminated food or water or through direct contact with an infectious person.
In developing countries, and in regions with poor hygiene standards, the incidence of infection with this virus is high.
HAV infection produces a self-limited disease that usually does not result in chronic infection or chronic liver disease.
Overall occurrence acute liver failure from Hepatitis A is rare (approx. 0.5%).
The risk for symptomatic infection is directly related to age, with >80% of adults having symptoms compatible with acute viral hepatitis and the majority of children having either asymptomatic or unrecognized infection.
Antibody produced in response to HAV infection persists for life and confers protection against reinfection.
The disease can be prevented by vaccination, and hepatitis A vaccine has been proven effective in controlling outbreaks worldwide.
Although HAV is excreted in the feces towards the end of the incubation period, specific diagnosis is made by the detection of HAV-specific IgM antibodies in the blood.
IgM antibody is only present in the blood following an acute hepatitis A infection.
It is detectable from one to two weeks after the initial infection and persists for up to 14 weeks.
The presence of IgG antibody in the blood means that the acute stage of the illness is past and the person is immune to further infection.
IgG antibody to HAV is also found in the blood following vaccination and tests for immunity to the virus are based on the detection of this antibody.
In congenital form of angioedema there is a deficiency in C-1 esterase inhibitor detectable by nephelometry.
Acquired forms are usually associated with qualitative (functional) deficiency of the inhibitor.
This is best detected by the enzyme immunoassay for the functional component.
To detect acquired forms of angioedema due to deficency of C-1 esterase inhibitor (C1-INH), a multispecific, protease inhibitor that is present in normal human plasma is measured.
The GPR98 gene (G protein-coupled receptor 98) is located on chromosome 5q13.
This gene encodes a member of the G-protein coupled receptor superfamily.
The encoded protein contains a 7-transmembrane receptor domain, binds calcium and is expressed in the central nervous system.
Mutations in this gene are associated with Usher syndrome 2 and familial febrile seizures.
Several alternatively spliced transcripts have been described.
The melanocyte-stimulating hormones (collectively referred to as MSH or intermedins) are a class of peptide hormones that in nature are produced by cells in the intermediate lobe of the pituitary gland.
Alpha-MSH is the most important melanocortin for pigmentation.
Chemoembolization of tumors uses three dimensional cone-beam computed tomography (CBCT) to both block arteries that feed the tumor and deliver chemotherapy agents directly to the tumor.
CBCT imaging is able to give detailed visualization of tumor vascularity, location, size, and volume.
Beads infused with chemotherapy drug such as doxorubicin are combined with contrast and delivered to the arteries that feed the tumor and block blood from nourishing it.
The chemotherapy agent then disseminates into the tumor.
A visual verification of devascularization of the vessels feeding the tumor and saturation of the tumor with contrast agent is mandatory to ensure full treatment of the tumor burden and predict tumor response.
Gastrin is a hormone that stimulates secretion of gastric acid by the parietal cells in the stomach.
It is released by G cells in the stomach and duodenum.
Atazanavir, marketed under the trade name Reyataz is an antiretroviral drug of the protease inhibitor (PI) class.
Like other antiretrovirals, it is used to treat infection of human immunodeficiency virus (HIV).
5-aminosalicylate (5-ASA) is a small organic acid that is absorbed in the small intestine where it produces local immunosuppression.
5-ASA has been in use for over 30 years for the treatment of inflammatory bowel disease (IBD), and has also proven to be highly effective, safe, and well-tolerated for the treatment of mild to moderate ulcerative colitis (UC), proctitis, and arthritis.
For patients with IBD, commitment to long-term therapy is necessary to reduce the occurrence of incapacitating flare ups in the short term and the development of colon cancer in the long term.
3-Hydroxytetradecanedioic acid is an unusual 3-hydroxydicarboxylic acid human metabolite found occasionally in urine.
High levels of 3-Hydroxytetradecanedioic acid (and other 3-hydroxydicarboxylic acids) were detected in the urine of a patient with 3-hydroxydicarboxylic aciduria, due to acute intoxication associated with hopantenate occurs owing to pantothenic acid deficiency or the inhibition of CoA-requiring reactions during stress, i.e., infection, prolonged fasting, or malnutrition, and in a patient with thanatophoric dysplasia due to enhanced but incomplete oxidation of fatty acid, a consequence of a heterozygous point mutation, S249C in the fibroblast growth factor receptor 3 gene.
Performed by adding drops of 10% KOH to vaginal fluid ond noting a "fishy" amine odor
Clotting time is the time required for a sample of blood to coagulate in vitro under standard conditions.
There are various methods for determining the clotting time, including manual methods such as Lee White and Sukharev, thromboelastography, and heparin protamine titration.
Vortioxetine is an antidepressant used to treat major depressive disorder (MDD).
It binds to a variety of serotonin receptors and also inhibits the reuptake of serotonin, thereby increasing the amount of 5-HT in the synapse.
Vortioxetine may also help reduce symptoms of anxiety.
Vortioxetine takes about 2 weeks to reach steady-state concentration in the plasma, and it is primarily metabolized in the liver to an inactive metabolite.
Side effects are primarily self-limited and include nausea, headache, and abdominal pain.
Ethylene (or IUPAC name ethene) is the chemical compound with the formula CH2 CH2.
It is the simplest alkene.
Because it contains a double bond, ethylene is called an unsaturated hydrocarbon or an olefin.
It is exceedingly important in industry and even has a role in biology as a hormone.
Ethylene is the organic compound produced on the largest scale: global production of ethylene exceeded 75,000,000 metric tonnes per year in 2005.
Globotriaosylsphingosine (lyso-Gb3) is the deacylated, cationic, amphiphilic glycolipid product of globotriaosylceramide (Gb3).
Gb3, lyso-Gb3, and an un-described additional metabolite of Gb3 are markedly increased in the plasma of male patients with classic Fabry disease.
Fabry disease is caused by a deficiency of alpha-galactosidase A due to a mutation in the alpha-galactosidase A gene on the X chromosome.
It leads to renal insufficiency, cardiac hypertrophy, and neuropathy that is thought to be due to the accumulation of Gb3 in the endothelium.
However, treatment of Fabry disease with enzyme therapy decreases the Gb3 in the endothelium, but does not eliminate disease symptoms to the degree expected.
In addition, plasma and urinary levels of Gb3 do not correlate with disease severity which suggests little or no correlation of the plasma level of Gb3 and the cause of disease.
The plasma levels that do correlate with symptoms of disease are lyso-Gb3.
Lyso-Gb3 is present in the plasma of Fabry patients in much higher levels than Gb3.
It is believed to inhibit the activity of alpha-galactosidase A, promote the storage of Gb3, and induce the proliferation of smooth muscle cells in vitro.
In Fabry disease, there is known accelerated hypertrophy of the walls of the radial artery and a thickening of the intima media of the common carotid artery as a result of smooth muscle cell proliferation.
Associated with activated T, B, and NK cells and Platelets
The CDHR1 gene (cadherin-related family member 1) is located on chromosome 10q23.1.
This gene belongs to the cadherin superfamily of calcium-dependent cell adhesion molecules.
The encoded protein is a photoreceptor-specific cadherin that plays a role in outer segment disc morphogenesis.
Mutations in this gene are associated with inherited retinal dystrophies.
Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been identified.
Benzoylecgonine is the major metabolite of cocaine.
It is a biological metabolite with a stable structure that resists hydrolysis, both in the body and in the environment.
Benzoylecgonine remains in the body for a few days and is commonly used as a marker in drug tests.
Hexokinase-1 is an enzyme that in humans is encoded by the HK1 gene.
Hexokinases phosphorylate glucose to produce glucose-6-phosphate, thus committing glucose to the glycolytic pathway.
This gene encodes a ubiquitous form of hexokinase which localizes to the outer membrane of mitochondria.
Mutations in this gene have been associated with hemolytic anemia due to hexokinase deficiency.
In the Mediterranean area, Pla a 3 is a minor allergen (27.3%) in London plane pollen-allergic patients without food allergy, and a major allergen (63.8%) in London plane pollen-allergic patients with Peach allergy.
A hydroxylated form of the amino acid proline.
A deficiency in ASCORBIC ACID can result in impaired hydroxyproline formation.
An ileostomy is created surgically to move waste out of the body when the colon and/or rectum are not functioning properly.
It is most commonly performed for ulcerative colitis but can also be necessary in cases of colon cancer, rectal cancer, birth defects or injuries to the colon or rectum.
An ileostomy can be temporary but if the entire large intestine and rectum are removed, an ileostomy may be permanent.
Valine is a primary marker for Maple syrup urine disease, Valinemia
CD5 is a cluster of differentiation found on a subset of IgM secreting B cells called B-1 cells, and also on T cells.
B1 B cells have limited diversity of their B Cell Receptor (BCR) due to their lack of the enzyme terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase (TdT) and are potentially self-reactive.
CD5 serves to mitigate activating signals from the BCR so that the B1 cells can only be activated by a very strong stimuli (such as bacterial proteins) and not by normal tissue proteins.
CD5 was used as a T cell marker until mABs against CD3 were developed.
In humans, the gene is located on the q arm of chromosome 11.
CD72 serves as a ligand.
Steroids that contain a ketone group at position 17.
Hev b 9 is an enolase, an ubiquitous enzyme involved in the carbohydrate catabolism pathway.
In a recent study, only 1 out of 40 health care workers tested, and no patient with spina bifida, was reported to have Hev b 9-specifc IgE antibodies.
Geobacillus stearothermophilus is a rod-shaped, gram-positive bacteria commonly used as a biological indicator for sterilization in labs.
Because G. stearothermophilus are thermophillic, they are highly resistant to heat and therefore used in equipment validation studies to prove that sterilization took place.
G. stearothermophilus was first described as Bacillus stearothermophilus, but was reclassified as a member of the genus Geobacillus in 2001 based on comparative analysis of the 16S rDNA sequences and fatty acid compositions of isolates.
Glyphosate (N-(phosphonomethyl) glycine) is a broad-spectrum systemic herbicide used to kill weeds, especially perennials.
It is typically sprayed and absorbed through the leaves, injected into the trunk, or applied to the stump of a tree, or broadcast or used in the cut-stump treatment as a forestry herbicide.
Kell is highly polymorphic.
It has two major codominant alleles, k and K, which result from a SNP (698C→T), and the corresponding k and K antigens differ by a single amino acid change (T193M).
Mostly IgG antibodies, so IgM is uncommon.
Anti-K does not bind complement.
If hemolysis does occur, it is extravascular in nature.
Anti-K can cause a severe hemolytic transfusion reaction and severe fetal anemia.
In the RBC membrane, the Kell glycoprotein is covalently linked to the XK protein, a multipass membrane protein thought to have a role in transport.
In the absence of XK, a condition called McLeod syndrome, Kell antigens are only weakly expressed and the RBCs are abnormal with spiky projections (acanthocytosis).
Systemic findings include muscular dystrophy, cardiomyopathy, psychiatric disturbances, and neurological defects, such as loss of reflexes and movement disorders.
The frequency of K antigens is 2% in Blacks, 9% in Caucasians, up to 25% in Arabs populations.
Beck L, Blood groups and red cell antigens. .
A metallic element (Zn, atomic number 30 and atomic weight 65.38) necessary in the diet.
It constitutes an essential part of many enzymes, and plays an important role in protein synthesis and in cell division.
Zinc deficiency is associated with anemia, short stature, hypogonadism, impaired wound healing and geophagia.
The natural range of the honeybee is thought to be Africa, Europe and the Middle East for A. mellifera and Japan, India and Indochina for A. cerona.
Honeybees have been domesticated and spread throughout the world.
Honeybee is the only stinging Hymenoptera that almost always leaves its fluked stinger in the skin of the victim.
The venom continues to pump into the victim until the venom sac is exhausted or the stinger removed.
Venoms from honeybees and bumblebees are reported to be highly cross-reactive, which is consistent with the degree of structural similarity in the phospholipases, phospholipase A2.
The hyaluronidases and phosphatases also have a high degree of similarity in honeybees and bumblebees.
There are over 100 species of horse and deer flies.
Deer flies (Chrysops spp., 33 species) range from 1/4 to ½ inch long, black to brown in coloration, often with yellowish markings.
They characteristically have clear wings with black or brown patterns, making wings appear to be banded.
Vesicular stomatitis virus (VSV) is a virus in the family Rhabdoviridae, order Mononegavirales.
The well-known Rabies virus belongs to the same family.
VSV can infect insects and mammals.
It is a common laboratory virus used to study the properties of viruses in the Rhabdoviridae family, as well as to study virus evolution.
VSV is an arbovirus:Natural VSV infections encompass two steps, cytolytic infections of mammalian hosts and transmission by insects.
In insects, infections are non-cytolytic persistent.
Vesicular stomatitis virus (VSV) is the prototypic member of the Vesiculovirus genera of the Rhabdovirus family.
The genome of the virus is a single molecule of negative-sense RNA that encodes five major proteins: glycoprotein (G), matrix protein (M), nucleoprotein, large protein (L) and phosphoprotein.
Half the genome encodes the L protein, which combines with the phosphoprotein to catalyze replication of the mRNA.
Myristic acid, also called tetradecanoic acid or 14:0 is a common saturated fatty acid with the molecular formula CH3(CH2)12COOH.
A myristate is a salt or ester of myristic acid.
Myristic acid is named after the nutmeg Myristica fragrans.
Nutmeg butter is 75% trimyristin, the triglyceride of myristic acid.
Besides nutmeg, myristic acid is also found in palm kernel oil, coconut oil, butter fat and is a minor component of many other animal fats.
It is also found in spermacetin, the crystallized fraction of oil from the sperm whale.
Myristic acid is also commonly added co-translationally to the penultimate, nitrogen-terminus, glycine in receptor-associated kinases to confer the membrane localisation of the enzyme.
The myristic acid has a sufficiently high hydrophobicity to become incorporated into the fatty acyl core of the phospholipid bilayer of the plasma membrane of the eukaryotic cell.
In this way, myristic acid acts as a lipid anchor in biomembranes.
The ester isopropyl myristate is used in cosmetic and topical medicinal preparations where good absorption through the skin is desired.
Reduction of myristic acid yields myristyl aldehyde and myristyl alcohol.
Avibactam is a non-beta-lactam beta-lactamase inhibitor that is being developed for possible use in combination with ceftaroline.
Ethylbenzene is an organic compound with the formula C6H5CH2CH3.
This aromatic hydrocarbon is important in the petrochemical industry as an intermediate in the production of styrene, which in turn is used for making polystyrene, a commonly used plastic material.
The Highlands J (HJ) virus is a zoonotic alphavirus native to North and South America.
It maintains a natural reservoir in the songbird population of freshwater swamps (generally scrub jays and blue jays) and is transmitted by the bite of the female Culiseta melanura mosquito.
Though nearly identical in structure and natural cycle to the Eastern equine encephalitis virus, it is considerably less virulent than its cousin, causing relatively mild symptoms in its primary avian reservoir and only nominally capable of transmission to mammals.
A 1995 study conducted in Florida swampland found that 15% of swamp-dwelling jays tested positive for HJ antibodies, all of which were asymptomatic and in apparent good health.
Recorded bird deaths from HJ infection are uncommon but not rare, and include several domestic turkeys at a commercial facility and young broiler chickens in an experimental setting.
Transmission to equines or humans via mosquito is also possible, though even more rare.
Despite its negligible virulence in humans, it is often tested for in US domestic mosquito control programs as an indicator of fruitful conditions for other mosquito-borne zoonoses to multiply.
Benzylpiperazine (BZP) is a recreational drug with euphoric, stimulant properties.
The effects produced by BZP are comparable to those produced by amphetamine.
Adverse effects have been reported following its use including acute psychosis, renal toxicity, and seizures.
Human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) is categorized into two types, HIV-1 and HIV-2.
Worldwide, most HIV infections are HIV-1, whereas HIV-2 largely has been confined to persons in or from West Africa (1,2).
HIV-1 and HIV-2 have the same routes of transmission, and both can cause acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS) (3); however, HIV-2 infections should be differentiated from HIV-1 infections because they are less likely to cause AIDS and their clinical management differs (4,5).
CDC's current surveillance case definition for HIV infection applies to both variants of HIV (6) but lacks criteria for differentiating between HIV-1 and HIV-2.
To enumerate and describe HIV-2 cases reported in the United States, a working case definition was developed.
During 1988 through June 2010, a total of 242 HIV-2 cases were reported to CDC.
Of these, 166 met the working definition.
These HIV-2 cases were concentrated in the Northeast (66%, including 46% in New York City) and occurred primarily among persons born in West Africa (81%).
Ninety-seven of the HIV-2 cases also had a positive HIV-1 immunoblot antibody test result (e.g., Western blot).
Immunoblot antibody tests currently used to confirm HIV reactive screening tests do not contain reagents specific to HIV-2 and thus are not reliable for identification of HIV-2 infections (7).
Additional testing specific to HIV-2 should be considered if HIV-1 test results are atypical or inconsistent with clinical findings, especially for persons from West Africa.
If an HIV case is reported to the health department but subsequently identified as HIV-2, health-care providers should update the case report to reflect the correct type.
As of June 2012, the Bio-Rad Multispot HIV-1/HIV-2 Rapid Test is FDA approved for distinguishing HIV1 from HIV2.
The MYC gene (v-myc avian myelocytomatosis viral oncogene homolog) is located on chromosome 8q24.21.
The protein encoded by this gene is a multifunctional, nuclear phosphoprotein that plays a role in cell cycle progression, apoptosis and cellular transformation.
It functions as a transcription factor that regulates transcription of specific target genes.
Mutations, overexpression, rearrangement and translocation of this gene have been associated with a variety of hematopoietic tumors, leukemias and lymphomas, including Burkitt lymphoma.
There is evidence to show that alternative translation initiations from an upstream, in-frame non-AUG (CUG) and a downstream AUG start site result in the production of two isoforms with distinct N-termini.
The synthesis of non-AUG initiated protein is suppressed in Burkitt's lymphomas, suggesting its importance in the normal function of this gene.
Vitamin E is found naturally in some foods, added to others, and available as a dietary supplement.
"Vitamin E" is the collective name for a group of fat-soluble compounds with distinctive antioxidant activities.
Naturally occurring vitamin E exists in eight chemical forms (alpha-, beta-, gamma-, and delta-tocopherol and alpha-, beta-, gamma-, and delta-tocotrienol) that have varying levels of biological activity. Alpha-
(or α-) tocopherol is the only form that is recognized to meet human requirements.
Vitamin E is a fat-soluble antioxidant that stops the production of reactive oxygen species formed when fat undergoes oxidation.
In addition to its activities as an antioxidant, vitamin E is involved in immune function and, as shown primarily by in vitro studies of cells, cell signaling, regulation of gene expression, and other metabolic processes.
Numerous foods provide vitamin E. Nuts, seeds, and vegetable oils are among the best sources of alpha-tocopherol, and significant amounts are available in green leafy vegetables and fortified cereals.
A phenothiazine derivative that is used as an antipruritic.
A hardy grain crop, rye, grown in northern climates.
It is the most frequent host to ergot (CLAVICEPS), the toxic fungus.
Its hybrid with TRITICUM is TRITICALE, another grain.
Decadienoylcarnitine is a primary marker for 2,4-Dienoyl-CoA reductase deficiency.
Volume of circulating BLOOD.
It is the sum of the PLASMA VOLUME and ERYTHROCYTE VOLUME.
Serine, one of the 20 amino acids, is commonly found in animal proteins.
Only the L-stereoisomer appears in nature.
It is not essential to the human diet, because it can be synthesized from other metabolites, including glycine.
Serine was first obtained from silk protein, a particularly rich source, in 1865.
Its name is derived from the Latin for silk, sericum.
Serine's structure was established in 1902.
Dezocine (Dalgan) is an opioid analgesic related to pentazocine, with a similar profile of effects that include analgesic action and euphoria at low doses, but produces dysphoria and hallucinations at high doses, most likely due to action at κ-opioid receptors.
The opening height is the vertical distance between the upper and lower lid margins in the ocular midline with the eyelids open.
The measurement is especially important in the assessment of ptosis or droopy eyelids.
An enzyme that catalyzes the transfer of D-glucose from UDPglucose into 1,4-alpha-D-glucosyl chains. .
Macrolide antifungal antibiotic produced by Streptomyces nodosus obtained from soil of the Orinoco river region of Venezuela.
Coagulation factor inhibitors can develop in patients with coagulation factor deficiencies after receiving factor therapy as well as in response to various antibiotics, chemotherapy and other conditions such as autoimmune disorders.
Factor V inhibitors are associated with hemorrhagic symptoms that can vary from mild to severe, and some patients have also presented with thrombosis.
The AS gene (major histocompatibility complex, class I, B) gene is located on chromosome 6p21.3.
HLA-B belongs to the HLA class I heavy chain paralogues.
This class I molecule is a heterodimer consisting of a heavy chain and a light chain (beta-2 microglobulin).
The heavy chain is anchored in the membrane.
Class I molecules play a central role in the immune system by presenting peptides derived from the endoplasmic reticulum lumen.
They are expressed in nearly all cells.
The heavy chain is approximately 45 kDa and its gene contains 8 exons.
Exon 1 encodes the leader peptide, exon 2 and 3 encode the alpha1 and alpha2 domains, which both bind the peptide, exon 4 encodes the alpha3 domain, exon 5 encodes the transmembrane region and exons 6 and 7 encode the cytoplasmic tail.
Polymorphisms within exon 2 and exon 3 are responsible for the peptide binding specificity of each class one molecule.
Typing for these polymorphisms is routinely done for bone marrow and kidney transplantation.
Hundreds of HLA-B alleles have been described.
Vitamin K-dependent calcium-binding protein synthesized by OSTEOBLASTS and found primarily in BONES.
Serum osteocalcin measurements provide a noninvasive specific marker of bone metabolism.
The protein contains three residues of the amino acid gamma-carboxyglutamic acid (Gla), which, in the presence of CALCIUM, promotes binding to HYDROXYAPATITE and subsequent accumulation in BONE MATRIX.
N-Nitrosodimethylamine (NDMA), also known as dimethylnitrosamine (DMN), is a semi-volatile organic chemical that is highly toxic and is a suspected human carcinogen.
The OCRL1 gene (oculocerebrorenal syndrome of Lowe) gene is located on chromosome Xq25.
This gene encodes a phosphatase enzyme that is involved in actin polymerization and is found in the trans-Golgi network.
Mutations in this gene cause oculocerebrorenal syndrome of Lowe and also Dent disease.
Casts are small mucoprotein tube-shaped structures formed in the distal convoluted tubules of the kidney.
Waxy casts contain wax in their matrix and may cracks or have large ends that maybe be square or broken off.
They are indicative of severe, chronic kidney disease such as reanl failure.
Taenia is a genus of tapeworm that includes some important parasites of livestock.
Members of the genus are responsible for taeniasis and cysticercosis in humans.
There are more than 100 species recorded.
They are morphologically characterized by a ribbon-like body composed of a series of segments called proglottids; hence the name Taenia (Greek tainia meaning ribbon, bandage or stripe).
The anterior end of the body is the scolex.
Not all members of the genus Taenia have an armed scolex (hooks and/or spines located in the "head" region), for example, Taenia saginata has an unarmed scolex, while Taenia solium has an armed scolex.
Proglottids have central ovary, with a vitellarium (yolk gland) posterior to it.
As in all cyclophyllid cestodes, there is genital pore on the side of the proglottid.
Eggs are released when proglottid deteriorates, and so a uterine pore is unnecessary.
Rhizomucor pusillus is a species of Rhizomucor.
It can cause human disease.
A biotin-dependent enzyme belonging to the ligase family that catalyzes the addition of CARBON DIOXIDE to pyruvate.
It is occurs in both plants and animals.
Deficiency of this enzyme causes severe psychomotor retardation and ACIDOSIS, LACTIC in infants. .
The MTHFR gene (methylenetetrahydrofolate reductase (NAD(P)H)) is located on chromosome 1p36.3.
The protein encoded by this gene catalyzes the conversion of 5,10-methylenetetrahydrofolate to 5-methyltetrahydrofolate, a co-substrate for homocysteine remethylation to methionine.
Genetic variation in this gene influences susceptibility to occlusive vascular disease, neural tube defects, colon cancer and acute leukemia, and mutations in this gene are associated with methylenetetrahydrofolate reductase deficiency.
Two common variants in the MTHFR gene are c.665C>T (also known as c.677C>T, and p.Ala222Val) and c.1298A>C. The 665C>T variant is heat labile, and patients who are homozygous for this variant have higher serum levels of homocysteine and lower levels of folate.
Individuals who have one copy of each of the two variants have similar clinical manifestations, while those who are homozygous for 1298A>C do not have elevated homocysteine levels.
The distance from the CC point (the point where the Basion-Nasion plane and the facial axis intersect) to Nasion
Borrelia burgdorferi is a Gram negative spirochete bacterium that causes Lyme disease.
It is most commonly transmitted to humans by an infected tick.
Typical symptoms include fever, headache, fatigue, and a characteristic skin rash called erythema migrans that usually spreads from the bite mark.
If left untreated, infection can spread to joints, the heart, and the nervous system.
Paralysis of one or both sides of the face may occur.
Treatment often requires antibiotics.
This bacterium is microaerophillic and slow-growing, explaining the long delays when diagnosing Lyme disease.
There are a large number of sub-species which differ in clinical symptoms and presentation as well as geographic distribution.
The life-cycle of B. burgdorferi is complex, requiring ticks, rodents, and deer as temporary hosts.
Mice are the primary reservoir for the bacteria that are transmitted to deer by the tick Ixodes scapularis.
The SLC14A1 gene (solute carrier family 14 (urea transporter), member 1 (Kidd blood group)) is located on chromosome 18q11-q12.
The protein encoded by this gene is a membrane transporter that mediates urea transport in erythrocytes.
This gene forms the basis for the Kidd blood group system.
Linezolid is a synthetic antibiotic that belongs to the oxazolidinone class.
It is used to treat bacterial infections that are resistant to multiple antimicrobial drugs including streptococcus and methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA).
Linezolid prevents bacteria from initiating bacterial protein synthesis.
For patients with tuberculosis infection that is resistant to both isoniazid and rifampicin, the use of linezolid has shown to improve the rate of sputum culture conversion.
However, for patients with drug-resistant tuberculosis, linezolid has proven to be difficult to tolerate due to its cumulative dose-related toxicity.
MAB-CHMINACA butanoic acid is a metabolite of MAB-CHMINACA (N--1-(cyclohexylmethyl)-1H-indazole-3-carboxamide), an indazole-based synthetic cannabinoid that is structurally related to AB-FUBINACA and shows high affinity for the cannabinoid CB1 receptor.
Synthetic cannabinoids interact with the same brain receptors as THC (the active drug present in marijuana) and have been demonstrated to produce similar effects.
The drug is typically sprayed on botanical material and smoked, although it can be ingested in liquid or powder form.
Products containing this drug are sold under a wide variety of names including (but not limited to)
Spice, Potpourri, Smoke, K2, Zombie, Kush, and Cloud 10.
NADP-dependent mannitol dehydrogenase (Cla h 8), which has been demonstrated to be a major allergen recognised by the IgE antibodies of 57% of all Cladosporium-allergic patients.
Heptachlor is a white to tan, waxy organochlorine that was used to treat termites and other insects.
It is toxic to humans and animals, causing irritability, salivation and dizziness when recurrently inhaled or exposed in and around the mouth.
Heptachlor production gradually ended in the 1980s, but remains in the soil and in hazardous waste sites.
The paramount danger of heptachlor is to the environment since it is slow to decompose and it bioaccumulates in the food chain.
Heptachlor is a probable human carcinogen.
Aloe vera has been commonly associated with the treatment of wounds and burns, and has also been shown to have some antifungal and antiinflammatory effects.
Typically usage involves the gel from the plant's leaves, but it can be found in a dried powder form as well.
Allergic reactions to aloe vera, including contact dermatitis, have been reported.
Doxepin is indicated for the short-term (up to 8 days) topical treatment of moderate pruritus in adult patients with eczematous dermatitis.
E.g., atopic dermatitis and lichen simplex chronicus.
Once absorbed into the systemic circulation, doxepin undergoes hepatic metabolism that results in the conversion to the pharmacologically active metabolite, desmethyldoxepin.
The parent compound and its metabolite also undergo glucuronidiation.
The SCN4A gene (sodium channel, voltage gated, type IV alpha subunit) is located on chromosome 17q23.3.
Voltage-gated sodium channels are transmembrane glycoprotein complexes composed of a large alpha subunit with 24 transmembrane domains and one or more regulatory beta subunits.
They are responsible for the generation and propagation of action potentials in neurons and muscle.
This gene encodes one member of the sodium channel alpha subunit gene family.
It is expressed in skeletal muscle, and mutations in this gene have been linked to several myotonia and periodic paralysis disorders.
Amblyopia is a vision deficiency in an eye that is otherwise physically normal, or a deficiency that is out of proportion to associated structural abnormalities of the eye.
It can be associated with strabismus or a limitation of one eye's focusing ability compared to the other.
A triage acuity systems with four-level scales.
The TRAF3 gene (TNF receptor-associated factor 3) is located on chromosome 14q32.32.
The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the TNF receptor associated factor (TRAF) protein family.
TRAF proteins associate with, and mediate the signal transduction from, members of the TNF receptor (TNFR) superfamily.
This protein participates in the signal transduction of CD40, a TNFR family member important for the activation of the immune response.
This protein is found to be a critical component of the lymphotoxin-beta receptor (LTbetaR) signaling complex, which induces NF-kappaB activation and cell death initiated by LTbeta ligation.
Epstein-Barr virus encoded latent infection membrane protein-1 (LMP1) can interact with this and several other members of the TRAF family, which may be essential for the oncogenic effects of LMP1.
Several alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding three distinct isoforms have been reported.
A chemical, which may result in allergy symptoms in sensitised individuals.
Acid anhydrides are a group of highly reactive chemicals used widely in the formulation of paints and plastics.
These chemicals are used in the synthesis of plasticisers and for producing epoxy and alkyd resins as well as a variety of other products including dyes, insecticides, polyester resins and pharmaceuticals.
In turn, epoxy and alkyd resins are used as constituents of paints, varnishes, surface coatings, adhesives, encapsulated materials and sealants).
Phthalic anhydride (PA) is a compound with a wide variety of industrial uses.
Acid anhydrides are strong respiratory irritants known to produce hypersensitivity pulmonary disease, often beginning as hypersensitivity pneumonitis, which can be known as Epoxy Resin Lung.
Hypersensitivity pneumonitis can be precipitated either by acute or chronic exposure to acid anhydrides.
Acute hypersensitivity pneumonitis may be characterised by fever, chills, nonproductive cough, chest pains, and dyspnoea.
Symptoms associated with chronic hypersensitivity include fever, cough, fatigue, weight loss, and shortness of breath.
An antibiotic mixture of two components, A and B, obtained from Nocardia lurida (or the same substance produced by any other means).
It is no longer used clinically because of its toxicity.
It causes platelet agglutination and blood coagulation and is used to assay those functions in vitro.
Most PSA in the blood is bound to serum proteins.
A small amount is not protein bound and is called free PSA.
In men with prostate cancer the ratio of free (unbound) PSA to total PSA is decreased.
The risk of cancer increases if the free to total ratio is less than 25%.
The lower the ratio the greater the probability of prostate cancer.
Measuring the ratio of free to total PSA appears to be particularly promising for eliminating unnecessary biopsies in men with PSA levels between 4 and 10 ng/mL.
Abnormal thrombocytes can be associated with May-Hegglin anomaly and myelodysplastic syndromes.
Pepsin is an enzyme whose precursor form (pepsinogen) is released by the chief cells in the stomach and that degrades food proteins into peptides.
Pepsin is a digestive protease.
Pepsin is one of three principal protein-degrading, or proteolytic, enzymes in the digestive system, the other two being chymotrypsin and trypsin.
The three enzymes were among the first to be isolated in crystalline form.
During the process of digestion, these enzymes, each of which is specialized in severing links between particular types of amino acids, collaborate to break down dietary proteins into their components, i.e., peptides and amino acids, which can be readily absorbed by the intestinal lining.
Pepsin is most efficient in cleaving peptide bonds between hydrophobic and preferably aromatic amino acids such as phenylalanine, tryptophan, and tyrosine.
Platanus × hispanica (syn. Platanus × acerifolia and Platanus × hybrida), the London Plane or Hybrid Plane, is a tree in the genus Platanus.
It is usually thought to be a hybrid of the Oriental Plane, P. orientalis, with the American Plane (American sycamore), P. occidentalis.
Some authorities think that it may be a cultivar of P. orientalis.
Modafinil (Provigil, Alertec, Modavigil, Modalert, Modiodal, Modafinilo, Carim) is an analeptic drug, and is approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for the treatment of narcolepsy, shift work sleep disorder, and excessive daytime sleepiness associated with obstructive sleep apnea.
The European Medicines Agency has recommended it be prescribed only for narcolepsy.
The tomato is a plant in the Solanaceae or nightshade family, native to Central and South America.
It is perennial, but is often cultivated as an annual, typically growing to 1€"3 m in height, with a weak, woody stem that usually scrambles over other plants.
The genus Solanum also contains the eggplant and the potato, as well as many poisonous species.
The leaves are 10€"25 cm long, pinnate, with 5€"9 leaflets, each leaflet up to 8 cm long, with a serrated margin; both the stem and leaves are densely glandular-hairy.
The flowers are 1€"2 cm across, yellow, with five pointed lobes on the corolla, borne in a cyme.
The fruit is an edible, brightly colored (usually red, from the pigment lycopene) berry, 1€"2 cm diameter in wild plants, commonly much larger in cultivated forms.
The word tomato derives from a word in the Nahuatl language, tomatl.
Anethum graveolens L. is a plant species of the family APIACEAE.
It is one of the plant SPICES.
Doripenem is an ultra-broad spectrum injectable antibiotic.
It is a beta-lactam and belongs to the subgroup of carbapenems.
It was launched by Shionogi Co. of Japan under the brand name Finibax in 2005, and is being marketed outside Japan by Johnson & Johnson.
It is particularly active against Pseudomonas aeruginosa.
Doripenem was approved by the United States Food and Drug Administration on October 12, 2007, to be sold under the tradename Doribax.
HPV type 69 has been associated with low grade cervical abnormalities, cancer precursors, and anogenital cancers.
IgG heavy chains with bound lambda light chains.
Found on early T- and B-cells, activated T- and B-cells and Plasma cells Associated with Plasmacytic neoplasms; Peripheral T-cell lymphomas; some B-cell lymphomas
Veterinary Medicine: Primor is an antimicrobial drug, used in veterinary medicine, containing sulfadimethoxine and ormetoprim.
The combination of these compounds providing increased efficacy, a broadened spectrum of activity to include some sulfonamide-resistant organisms, and reduction in the rate of resistance development.
A tulip is a bulbous plant in the genus Tulipa, comprising 109 species with showy flowers, in the family Liliaceae.
The species native range includes southern Europe, North Africa, and Asia from Anatolia and Iran in the west to northeast of China.
Adenosine deaminase (ADA) is a purine salvage pathway enzyme, which catalyzes the irreversible deamination of adenosine into inosine and ammonia.
Elevated adenosine deaminase activities are found in tuberculous pleural and pericardial effusions.
In addition, increased ADA levels in cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) have been observed in tuberculous meningitis.
These ADA increases are caused by the cellular immune response in the fluid compartment, especially in the activation of T lymphocytes.
Thus, many disorders can cause elevations.
Deficency of adenosine deaminase is the most frequent known cause of SCID (Severe combined immunodeficency disease) it is observed in 25% of cases.
Ethyl glucuronide (EtG), a metabolite of ethyl alcohol formed in the body by glucuronidation following ethanol exposure, is a biomarker for ethanol use and a monitor to document alcohol abstinence in circumstances where drinking is prohibited, such as by the military, in professional monitoring programs, in schools, liver transplant clinics, or in recovering alcoholic patients.
A disadvantage of the test is that because EtG can be detected at very low levels, it can also be positive after exposure to alcohol from non-beverage sources such as mouthwash, foods, over-the-counter medications, or incidental exposure, which can lead to false positives.
Actin is a protein found in all eukaryotic cells.
It is the monomeric subunit of two types of filaments in cells: microfilaments and thin filaments.
There are three main groups of actin isoforms - alpha, beta, and gamma.
The alpha actins are found in muscle tissues and contribute to muscle contraction.
The beta and gamma actins exist in most cell types as components of the cytoskeleton and contribute to cell shape, motility and division.
Actin is primarily measured to determine the effects of proteins and drugs on actin polymerization and depolymerization and has been shown to be a host factor for HIV-1 infection.
Cefalexin or cephalexin (USAN is a first-generation cephalosporin antibiotic.
It is an orally-administered agent with a similar antimicrobial spectrum to the intravenous agents cefalotin and cefazolin.
It is commonly marketed under the trade name Keflex (Lilly.
1,1'-sulfonylbis-2-methylthioethane (SBMTE) is one of three metabolites of the chemical warfare agent Sulfur Mustard gas and is used to measure human exposure to the parent agent.
Sulfur mustard is a blister agent that can cause long term health issues and death.
To measure motility, a simple system for grading is recommended that distinguishes spermatozoa with progressive or non-progressive motility from those that are immotile.
The motility of each spermatozoon is graded as follows: Progressive motility (PR): spermatozoa moving actively, either linearly or in a large circle, regardless of speed.
Non-progressive motility (NP): all other patterns of motility with an absence of progression, e.g. swimming in small circles, the flagellar force hardly displacing the head, or when only a flagellar beat can be observed.
Dalbavancin (INN, propriatory name Zeven) is a novel second-generation lipoglycopeptide antibiotic.
It belongs to the same class as vancomycin, the most widely-used and one of the few treatments available to patients infected with methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA).
Propiomazine (Largon, Propavan, Indorm, Serentin, Dorevane, Dorevan) is an antihistamine blocking H1 receptors.
It is used to treat insomnia, and to produce sleepiness or drowsiness and to relieve anxiety before or during surgery or other procedures and in combination with analgetics also during labor.
Propiomazine is a phenothiazine, but is not used as a neuroleptic because it does not block dopamine receptors well.
Vitamin K is an essential cofactor for clotting factors II, VII, IX, X, protein C, and proteins.
Patients with vitamin K deficiency have prolonged prothrombin clotting times.
Dietary deficiency is rare, but deficiency may occur due to malabsorption, steatorrhea or certain antibiotics.
Vitamin K may be used to treat warfarin overdose.
Information from Jacobs and DeMott Laboratory Test Handbook, 5th edition, DS Jacobs, WR DeMott and DK Oxley, 2001.
Semisynthetic thienamycin that has a wide spectrum of antibacterial activity against gram-negative and gram-positive aerobic and anaerobic bacteria, including many multiresistant strains.
It is stable to beta-lactamases.
Clinical studies have demonstrated high efficacy in the treatment of infections of various body systems.
Its effectiveness is enhanced when it is administered in combination with cilastatin, a renal dipeptidase inhibitor.
Artemisia californica, also known as California sagebrush, of the Asteraceae family, is a shrub that grows in coastal sage scrub, coastal strand, chaparral, and dry foothill communities, from sea level to 800 m (2600 ft.).
It is native to California and Baja California.
Total iron-binding capacity is a test that measures the extent to which iron-binding sites in the serum can be saturated.
Because the iron-binding sites in the serum are almost entirely on circulating transferrin, this is really an indirect measurement of the amount of transferrin in the blood.
Along with with serum iron and percent transferrin saturation this test is performed when anemia or iron deficiency are suspected.
However, because the liver produces transferrin, liver function must also be considered when performing this test.
It can also be an indirect test of liver function, but is rarely used for this purpose.
The liver produces more transferrin in response to iron deficiency, so the percent transferrin saturation (i.e., the result of the formula of serum ironTIBC x 100) can also be a useful indicator.
Gastrin-releasing peptide (GRP) is a neuropeptide of the bombesin family that elicits gastrin release from the stomach, regulates enteric motility, and is involved in a number of physiological and pathological processes.
ProGRP, the prohormone precursor of GRP, has been found to be a reliable marker in patients with small cell lung cancer (SCLC), both as a sensitive and specific diagnostic marker as well as for monitoring therapeutic response .
The M204I mutations are associated with Lamivudine, Entecavir, Telbivudine and Tenofovir resistance
The Apnea Index (AI) is the hourly rate of all apneas (obstructive apneas, central apneas, and mixed apneas) during a sleep study.
Proteinase from pineapple juice
The smaller fragment formed when complement C4 is cleaved by COMPLEMENT C1S. It is an anaphylatoxin that causes symptoms of immediate hypersensitivity (HYPERSENSITIVITY, IMMEDIATE)
but its activity is weaker than that of COMPLEMENT C3A or COMPLEMENT C5A.
The CNBP (ZNF9) gene contains a complex repeat motif, (TG)n(TCTG)n(CCTG), in intron 1 that varies in length for each repeat.
Expansion of the CCTG repeat portion causes myotonic dystrophy type 2 (DM2).
Normal alleles have 11-26 CCTG repeats, intermediate (premutation) alleles have 27-74 repeats, and mutated alleles have greater than 75 to more than 11,000 repeats.
The tetranucleotide repeat is somatically and meiotically unstable.
When the repeat expansion is passed on from affected parent to offspring, the mutated allele can either expansion or contract within the disease range.
Latin name: Gallus domesticus.
Direct or indirect contact with bird allergens may cause sensitization.
Bird allergens may be major components of house dust.
Other means of exposure are pillows made of chicken feathers, arts and crafts that include Chicken feathers, and wing feathers used in fletching arrows.
Cross-reactivity to Parrot, Budgerigar, Pigeon, Goose and Duck have been reported in Chicken-allergic patients.
Asthma, allergic rhinitis and allergic conjunctivitis may result following exposure to Chicken feathers, epithelial cells or droppings.
In Bird-Egg Syndrome, cross reactivity to Hen's egg occurs.
Hydroxyproline is a hydrophilic amino acid with uncharged polar groups and is a major component of collagen.
Increased with hydroxyprolinemia and iminoglycinuria.
Decreased with chronic Vitamin C deficiency.
(Information from ARUP Laboratories 9/14/06)
The human leukocyte antigen B (HLA-B;) plays an important role in how the immune system recognizes and responds to pathogens.
HLA-B belongs to a class of molecules that are found on the surface of most cells.
These molecules are responsible for presenting peptides to immune cells.
Peptides derived from normal human proteins are recognized as such, whereas foreign peptides derived from pathogens trigger an immune response.
Antiepileptics with an aromatic ring, for example carbamazepine and phenytoin, interact with HLA-B*15:02 and alter the repertoire of self-peptides that are presented to T lymphocytes, which activates an immune reaction known as Stevens-Johnson syndrome or toxic epidermal necrolysis..
Calcitonin is a 32 amino acid polypeptide hormone that is produced in humans by the C cells of the thyroid.
It acts to decrease the formation and absorptive activity of osteoclasts.
Its calcium regulating roles is greater in children and in certain diseases than in normal adults.
Calcitonin testing detects medullary carcinoma of thyroid gland, and evaluates calcium metabolism.
Concentrations of calcitonin in plasma rise in patients with C cell tumors, and in some patieints with cancer of lung, breast and pancreas.
It also rises in chronic renal failure, pernicious anemia, pregnancy at term and is higher in newborns.
Nitroblue tetrazolium test investigates neutrophil function following recurrent bacterial infections especially when chronic granulomatous disease is suspected.
Does not differentiate bacterial infections from nonbacterial infections.
In chronic granulomatous disease neutrophils are unable to reduce the Nitro blue dye which correlates with their ability to kill bacteria.
Pseudouridine (Psi) is catalyzed from uridine by pseudouridine synthases.
It is primarily a degradation product of transfer ribonucleic acid (tRNA) and is the most predominant modified nucleoside found in RNA.
It enhances the function of transfer RNA and ribosomal RNA by stabilizing the RNA structure.
Urinary modified nucleosides, including pseudouridine, are found to be elevated in patients with oncogenic diseases and hepatitis .
Specifies the way in which the temperature, such as that in an infant incubator or radiant warmer, is controlled, which can be either manual or by servo, an automatic method that adjusts the temperature based on the patient's temperature.
Ziziphus zizyphus, commonly called jujube, red date, or chinese date, is a species of Ziziphus in the buckthorn family Rhamnaceae, used primarily for its fruits.
Filter pressure is the pressure created by the blood pump as blood moves away from the patient and towards the filter.
Skeletal muscle relaxant that acts by interfering with excitation-contraction coupling in the muscle fiber.
It is used in spasticity and other neuromuscular abnormalities.
Although the mechanism of action is probably not central, dantrolene is usually grouped with the central muscle relaxants.
Spelt (Triticum spelta) is an ancient and distant cousin to modern wheat
An autoantibody is an antibody (a type of protein) manufactured by the immune system that is directed against one or more of the individual's own proteins.
It is derived from the Greek "auto" which means "self", "anti" which means "against" and "body".
Many autoimmune diseases, notably lupus erythematosus, are caused by such autoantibodies.
Storage-stable blood coagulation factor acting in the intrinsic pathway.
Its activated form, IXa, forms a complex with factor VIII and calcium on platelet factor 3 to activate factor X to Xa.
Deficiency of factor IX results in HEMOPHILIA B (Christmas Disease).
2-Ketoglutaric acid (alpha ketoglutarate) is an important nitrogen transporter and a key intermediate in the Krebs cycle.
Amino groups of amino acids are attached to it by transamination and carried to the liver where the urea cycle takes place.
Increased levels found with 2-ketoglutaric DH deficiency, GA I, 2-amino/2-ketoadipate acidemia, dihdrolipoyl DH(E3) deficiency, glycogen storage disorders I, 2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria(D-form), and fumarase deficiency.
Very low values are sometimes encountered in chronic fatigue syndrome.(Information from: Kumps A, Duez P, Mardens Y. Metabolic, Nutritional, Iatrogenic, and Artifactual Sources of Urinary Organic Acids: A Comprehensive Table.
The GJB3 gene (gap junction protein, beta 3, 31kDa) is located on chromosome 1p34.
This gene is a member of the connexin gene family.
The encoded protein is a component of gap junctions, which are composed of arrays of intercellular channels that provide a route for the diffusion of low molecular weight materials from cell to cell.
Mutations in this gene can cause non-syndromic deafness or erythrokeratodermia variabilis, a skin disorder.
Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding the same protein.
Ethane is a chemical compound with chemical formula C2H6.
It is the only two-carbon alkane that is an aliphatic hydrocarbon.
At standard temperature and pressure, ethane is a colorless, odorless gas.
Ethane is isolated on an industrial scale from natural gas, and as a byproduct of petroleum refining.
Its chief use is as petrochemical feedstock for ethylene production.
Alpha lactalbumin and beta-lactoglobulin are the major proteins found in whey protein.
Whey protein is a mixture of the proteins found in milk.
Cow's milk is one of the first foreign proteins infants are exposed to and is one of the most common food allergens.
IgE antibodies to alpha lactalbumin and beta lactoglobulin are found in most patients allergic to milk.
Information from Medscape General Medicine 1(1),1999.
7-Isobiopterin (also known as 7-biopterin or primapterin), is a pterin derivative of 4a-hydroxy-BH4.
In healthy patients, tetrahydrobiopterin (BH4) is converted to 4a-hydroxy-BH4 with a concomitant conversion of phenylalanine to tyrosine, and BH4 is subsequently regenerated via a pathway that includes pterin-4a-carbinolamine dehydratase (PCD), which is encoded by the PCBD gene.
Mutations in the PCBD gene are associated with decreased PCD activity, which results in decreased BH4 salvage, increase in phenylalanine due to inhibition of the BH4 to 4a-hydroxy-BH4 reaction, and concomitant increase in 7-biopterin in urine due to alternate metabolism of 4a-hydroxy-BH4.
The influenza A and B virus genomes comprise eight segmented viral RNAs (vRNAs).
Each RNA segment encodes 1 or 2 nonstructural proteins.
Segmentation of the vRNAs allows viruses to exchange vRNAs with other strains.
Although research has shown consistency of the packaging mechanism between viruses, it is more variable than previously thought which is relevant in understanding how infectious and noninfectious virions coordinate to produce infection.
Inspiratory capacity (IC) is the sum of IRV and TV
Surgical operation note (Operative note) is note or report created immediately following a surgical or other high-risk procedure.
It records the pre- and post-surgical diagnoses, pertinent events of the procedure, as well as the condition of the patient following the procedure.
The report provides details to support the diagnoses, justify the treatment, document the course of the procedure, and provide continuity of care.
The disease or injury that initiated the chain of morbid events that led directly and inevitably to death.
O(6)-methylguanine-DNA methyltransferase (MGMT) is an essential enzyme involved in the repair of damage caused by a variety of DNA crosslinking compounds, including alkylating agents.
Hypermethylation of the MGMT gene promoter region causes diminished or silenced expression of the gene, making cells more sensitive to DNA damage and prone to tumor development.
Approximately 40% to 45% of glioblastoma multiforme (GBM) tumors exhibit MGMT gene methylation.
In patients with malignant brain tumors, the loss of activity has been shown to be a promising predictor of response to alkylating agent-based chemotherapies, including BCNU (carmustine), CCNU and Temozolomide.
The loss of MGMT activity in tumor cells can no longer repair the methyl adduct formation caused by the chemotherapy, leading to lethal cross-links between DNA strands.
Most patients with methylated MGMT (m_MGMT) experience an increase in overall survival and time to progression of the disease.
The MGMT and ß-Actin copy numbers will be used to calculate the ratio (score) of MGMT/ß-Actin x 1000.
<2 methylation not detected ≥2 and < 8 low level methylation ≥8 methylation detected
Ascorbate oxidase is a multi-copper blue enzyme that catalyzes the oxidation of ascorbic acid (AA) to dehydroascorbic acid (DHA) and is found in cucurbitaceous plants like pumpkin, cucumber, and melon.
Perchlorates are the salts derived from perchloric acid (HClO4).
They occur both naturally and through manufacturing.
They have been used as a medicine for more than 50 years to treat thyroid gland disorders.
They are used extensively within the pyrotechnics industry, and ammonium perchlorate is also a component of solid rocket fuel.
Lithium perchlorate, which decomposes exothermically to give oxygen, is used in oxygen "candles" on spacecraft, submarines and in other esoteric situations where a reliable backup or supplementary oxygen supply is needed.
Most perchlorate salts are soluble in water.
Metabolic syndrome is a combination of medical disorders that increase the risk of developing cardiovascular disease and diabetes.
It affects one in five people, and prevalence increases with age.
Metabolic syndrome is also known as metabolic syndrome X, syndrome X, insulin resistance syndrome, Reaven's syndrome, and CHAOS.
Anthranilic acid is the organic compound with the formula C6H4(NH2)COOH.
This amino acid is white solid when pure, although commercial samples may appear yellow.
The molecule consists of a benzene ring with two adjacent functional groups, a carboxylic acid and an amine.
Because these two groups are polar, this organic compound is highly soluble in water.
It is sometimes referred to as vitamin L.
A major alkaloid from Colchicum autumnale L. and found also in other Colchicum species.
Its primary therapeutic use is in the treatment of gout, but it has been used also in the therapy of familial Mediterranean fever (PERIODIC DISEASE).
Scrapie is a fatal transmissible degenerative disease of the central nervous system occurring naturally in sheep and goats, and the prototype of transmissible spongiform encephalopathies (TSE) or prion diseases.
The name "Scrapie" was coined as infected animals usually scrape off their wool from itching and rubbing.
Although natural transmission of Scrapie to other species has not been shown, TSEs are the subject of increased attention and concern because of the discovery of BSE in cattle and the link between it and variant Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease in humans.
Genotyping determines the amino acids coded by five different codons (112, 136, 141, 154, 171) in the prion protein gene (PrP).
These are reported as a pair of one character amino acid codes such as RR, RH, QQ, etc.
Though there are multiple genes expressing different levels of susceptibility, codon 171 is the gene most focused on in the U.S.
At this gene, "QQ" animals are highly susceptible to Scrapie infection if exposed, "QR" are rarely susceptible, and "RR" are highly resistant.
This testing does not diagnosis Scrapie, but is an important tool for selecting genetically resistant breeding stock.
Speckled ANA pattern correlates with antibody to nuclear antigens extractable by saline; it is found in many disease states, including SLE and scleroderma.
When antibodies to DNA and deoxyribonucleoprotein are present (rim and homogenous pattern), there may be interference with the detection of speckled pattern.
American cheese is a common processed cheese.
It is orange, yellow, or white in color and mild in flavor, with a medium-firm consistency, and melts easily.
American cheese was originally only white, but can sometimes be modified to yellow in color.
It has traditionally been made from a blend of cheeses, most often Colby and Cheddar.
Today's American cheese is generally no longer made from a blend of all-natural cheeses, but instead is manufactured from a set of ingredients such as milk, whey, milkfat, milk protein concentrate, whey protein concentrate, and salt.
When substitutes are used it does not meet the legal definition of cheese in many jurisdictions, and must be labeled as "cheese product" or similar.
HLA class II histocompatibility antigen, DP(W2) beta chain is a protein that in humans is encoded by the HLA-DPB1 gene
The N-glucuronide conjugate of cotinine is a major urinary metabolite of nicotine.
It serves as a biomarker of exposure to tobacco.
It stimulates the CNS.
Fennel is native to southern Europe (where it has been popular since Mycenaean times), and is common there and in Britain, Ethiopia, the Middle East, the Far East, the Caribbean, and parts of South America.
It has a broad, bulbous base that is treated like a vegetable.
Common fennel is the variety from which the oval, greenish-brown Fennel seeds come.
Fennel may commonly induce symptoms of food allergy in sensitised individuals.
Allergic symptoms may occur in children.
Fennel allergy in children may result in symptoms of food allergy and/or atopic dermatitis.
HPV type 33 has been associated with low grade cervical abnormalities, cancer precursors, and anogenital cancers.
3-Methylcrotonylglycine is an acyl glycine.
Acyl glycines are normally minor metabolites of fatty acids.
However, the excretion of certain acyl glycines is increased in several inborn errors of metabolism.
In certain cases the measurement of these metabolites in body fluids can be used to diagnose disorders associated with mitochondrial fatty acid beta-oxidation.
Acyl glycines are produced through the action of glycine N-acyltransferase which is an enzyme that catalyzes the chemical reaction: acyl-CoA + glycine < -- > CoA + N-acylglycine.
3-Methylcrotonylglycine is a normal amino acid metabolite found in urine.
Increased levels of this metabolite are found in patients suffering from leucine catabolic disorders, such as 3-methylcrotonyl-CoA carboxylase deficiency.
3-Methylcrotonylglycine is often considered to be a diagnostic marker of organic acidemias.
Salts or esters of carbamic acid, H2NC(=O)OH, or of N-substituted carbamic acids: R2NC(=O)OR', (R' = hydrocarbyl or a cation).
The esters are often called URETHANE or urethan, a usage that is strictly correct only for the ethyl esters.
The oxidation products of cholesterol, particularly cholestane-3beta,5alpha,6beta-triol and 7-ketocholesterol, have proven to be sensitive and specific biomarkers for early detection of Niemann Pick type C (NPC) disease.
NPC disease is a rare genetic disorder that results in the accumulation of cholesterol and other lipids internally.
Patients often present in childhoold with hepatospenomegaly and central nervous system degeneration, although the presentation is broad and adult-onset psychiatric or visceral disease can occur.
Mutations in the NPC1 or NPC2 gene are responsible, with the vast majority ocurring in NPC1.
Prior to cholestane-3beta,5alpha,6beta-triol and 7-ketocholesterol, filipin staining of skin biopsy material was the assay of choice, although it was cumbersome, insensitive, and not widely avaialble .
A frenum is a thin fold of mucous membrane with enclosed muscle fibers that attaches the lips to the alveolar mucosa and underlying periosteum and provides stability.
A frenulum is a small frenum.
Various periodontal disorders can affect the frena, and the location of the affected frena may help guide treatment.
In addition, specific frena abnormalities are associated with certain syndromes, including Ehlers-Danlos and oro-facial-digital syndrome.
Hematopoietic progentitor (stem) cells give rise to all of the blood cells, these cells are less mature than blasts.
They are represent about 1 of 10,000 myeloid cellls in bone marrow.
The Sysmex system defines them on the basis of their size and internal complexity not on the basis of particular CDx cells as is possible with cytometers.
In particular this count will include both CD34+ and CD34- cells.
Automated counters detect them via their direct current and radio frequency signals.
An enzyme that catalyzes the hydrolysis of adenosine to inosine with the elimination of ammonia.
Since there are wide tissue and species variations in the enzyme, it has been used as a tool in the study of human and animal genetics and in medical diagnosis. .
Exposure to canary droppings can lead to the development of respiratory symptoms and allergic disease.
Mostly all the symptoms prompted by exposure to birds affect the respiratory tract.
Anthemus cotula L., commonly known as stinking chamomile, Dog fennel or "manzanilla del campo", is a flavonoid flower in the sunflower family (Asteraceae) native to Europe and Africa, and has been introduced across the world where it grows as a weed.
Its infusion is used to treat fever, muscles spasms, dysentery and gout, and has been found to have strong antimicrobial properties against E. coli and Staphylococcus epidermis.
MART-1 / Melan-A is a protein antigen found on melanocytes.
Antibodies against the antigen are used in the medical specialty of anatomic pathology in order to recognize cells of melanocytic differentiation, useful for the diagnosis of a melanoma.
The same name is also used to refer to the gene which codes for the antigen.
The names MART-1 and Melan-A were coined by two groups of researchers who independently sequenced the gene for this antigen in 1994.
Both names are currently in common use.
at the National Cancer Institute coined the term MART-1, which stands for "Melanoma Antigen Recognized by T-cells.
Coulie et al. of Belgium called the gene Melan-A, presumably an abbreviation for "melanocyte antigen.
The MART-1 / Melan-A antigen is specific for the melanocyte lineage, found in normal skin, the retina, and melanocytes, but not in other normal tissues.
It is thus useful as a marker for melanocytic tumors (melanomas) with the caveat that it is normally found in benign nevi as well.
MART-1 / Melan-A is a putative 18 kDa transmembrane protein consisting of 118 amino acids.
It has a single transmembrane domain.
Excision repair cross-complementation group 1 (ERCC1) is required for nucleotide excision repair of damaged DNA and is homologous to RAD10.
In mammalian cells, XPG cleaves 3' of the DNA lesion while ERCC1-XPF complex makes the 5' incision.
In patients with non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC), studies have shown that levels of expression of ERCC1 in tumors are indicative of treatment outcome for various types of chemotherapy.
The KCNQ2 gene (potassium channel, voltage gated KQT-like subfamily Q, member 2) is located on chromosome 20q13.3.
The M channel is a slowly activating and deactivating potassium channel that plays a critical role in the regulation of neuronal excitability.
The M channel is formed by the association of the protein encoded by this gene and a related protein encoded by the KCNQ3 gene, both integral membrane proteins.
M channel currents are inhibited by M1 muscarinic acetylcholine receptors and activated by retigabine, a novel anti-convulsant drug.
Defects in this gene are a cause of benign familial neonatal convulsions type 1 (BFNC), also known as epilepsy, benign neonatal type 1 (EBN1).
At least five transcript variants encoding five different isoforms have been found for this gene.
Clostridium perfringens is a gram positive, anaerobic, rod-shaped bacterium.
It is classified into five types designated A through E. Four toxins are produced by C. perfringens that have lethal, necrotic and cytotoxic capabilities.
The four toxins are known as alpha-toxin (CPA), beta-toxin (CPB), epsilon-toxin (ETX) and iota-toxin (ITX).
When toxins produced by C. perfringens are mixed in different combination, sixteen toxins can be produced.
Pathogenesis due to C. perfringens is due almost always to the production of one or more of its toxins.
CPA is encoded by the cpa gene that is located on the chromosome and is produced by all strains of C. perfringens.
CPA is an enzyme that breaks down phosphatidylcholine and sphingomyelin which damages membrane phospholipids and leads to the lysis of cells.
CPA also cause hemolysis, activates the arachidonic cascade and inflammation cascade which induce vasoconstriction.
There is no definitive evidence that CPA is involved with enteritis, abomasitis and/or enterotoxemia in cattle, horses, goats, and pigs.
In humans, studies support that CPA is the main toxin believed to cause gas gangrene, a disease involving extensive local tissue damage and necrosis that leads to shock and death.
Gas gangrene also occurs in domestic animals including sheep, cattle, goats, and horses.
The RPGRIP1 gene (retinitis pigmentosa GTPase regulator interacting protein 1) is located on chromosome 14q11.
This gene encodes a photoreceptor protein that interacts with retinitis pigmentosa GTPase regulator protein and is a key component of cone and rod photoreceptor cells.
Mutations in this gene lead to autosomal recessive congenital blindness.
Nutritional status is an overall assessment of a patient's state of nourishment and is based on a variety of factors, including age, sex, disease, diet, physical and laboratory measurements, and economic and cultural influences.
The Bordetella species gidA (or mnmG) gene encodes the tRNA uridine 5-carboxymethylaminomethyl modification enzyme MnmG (also known as Glucose-inhibited division protein A).
The gidA gene is used as a target for the DNA-based diagnosis of respiratory infections caused by Bordetella species, including B. parapertussis and B. bronchiseptica.
Calciferol or ergocalciferol, also known as Vit D2, is a fat-soluble prohormone.
Vitamin D has many functions including the regulation of calcium and phosphorus levels in blood, the promotion of bone formation and mineralization, and the boosting of the immune system.
Vitamin D deficiency may result from inadequate dietary intake, insufficient sunlight, malabsorption problems, kidney or liver impairment.
It occurs naturally in fish.
Vitamin D2 is produced when UVB radiation from sunlight reacts with ergosterol.
It is then hydroxylated in the liver to 25-hydroxycholecalciferol which in turn is hydroxylated in the kidney into two dihydroxylated metabolites which are 1,25-dihydroxycholecalciferol (the active hormone) and 24R,25 (OH)2D3.
The thrombin clotting time (TCT), also known as the thrombin time (TT), is a coagulation assay which is usually performed to detect the therapeutic level of the anticoagulant heparin.
It can also detect the presence of a fibrinogen abnormality.
It is sometimes used in lupus anticoagulant screening, along with reptilase time, as a reflex test if any of the screening test results are out of range in order to detect the presence of heparin, dysfibrogenemia, or hypofibrogenemia.
Collagen is the main protein of connective tissue in animals and the most abundant protein in mammals, making up about 25% of the total.
It is one of the long, fibrous structural proteins whose functions are quite different from those of globular proteins such as enzymes.
Strong, tough bundles of collagen called collagen fibers are a major component of the extracellular matrix that supports most tissues and gives cells structure from the outside, but collagen is also found inside certain cells.
Collagen has great tensile strength, and is the main component of cartilage, ligaments, tendons, bone and teeth.
Along with soft keratin, it is responsible for skin strength and elasticity, and its degradation leads to wrinkles that accompany aging.
It strengthens blood vessels and plays a role in tissue development.
It is present in the cornea and lens of the eye in crystalline form.
It is also used in cosmetic surgery and burns surgery.
Distance from Articulare to Gonion
A heavy metal is any of a number of higher atomic weight elements, which normally presents as a metallic substance at room temperatures.
There are several different definitions of which elements fall in this class designation:
According to one definition, heavy metals are a group of elements between copper and bismuth on the periodic table of the elementshaving specific gravities greater than 4.0.A stricter definition limits the term to those metals heavier than the rare earth metals, at the bottom of the periodic table.
None of these are essential elements in biological systems; all of the more well-known elements with the exception of bismuth and gold are toxic.
Thorium and uranium are sometimes included as well, but they are more often called simply radioactive metals.
Cortisol is excreted into the urine unbound, that is, as free cortisol.
In most cases this is the only form excreted and measured in the urine.
Urinary-free cortisol concentration closely approximates the unconjugated plasma cortisol concentration.
Whereas serum cortisol levels fluctuate throughout the day and are dependent on concurrent cortisol-binding globulin (CBG) levels, a 24-hour urine measurement integrates the cortisol production for the entire day and is not affected by CBG.
The greatest value of urinary free cortisol measurement is to detect states of adrenal hyperfunction such as Cushing's syndrome.
The amount of protein-based foods consumed, where a serving is the amount of that food customarily considered a serving.
Atlas Genet Cytogenet Oncol Haematol.
Atlas Genet Cytogenet Oncol Haematol.
The MYD88 gene, located on chromosome 3, encodes the myeloid differentiation primary response protein MyD88.
Germline mutations in MYD88 are associated with a disorder called MyD88 deficiency, which is characterized by recurrent bacterial infections.
A specific somatic mutation in the MYD88 gene involving replacement of the amino acid leucine by proline at position 265 (Leu265Pro) is found in more than 90% of patients with Waldenstrom macroglobulinemia, a type of blood cancer associated with excessive production of IgM.
This same mutation is also found in more than half of patients with IgM monoclonal gammopathy of undetermined significance (IgM-MGUS) as well as some patients with diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL) and marginal zone lymphoma.
Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) is a gamma herpes virus also known as human herpes 4 and occurs only in humans.
EBV is prevalent worldwide with over 90% of the adult population infected in their lifetime.
The virus is spread mainly through body fluids and particularly through saliva.
Symptoms of infection include fatigue, fever, inflamed throat, swollen lymph nodes in the neck, enlarged spleen, swollen liver and rash.
EBV becomes dormant post infection but occasionally will reactivate especially in immunosuppressed patients.
Laboratory tests are used to determine whether the infection is a primary infection (absence of anti-EBNA, presence of anti-VCA) or a past infection (presence of both anti-EBNA and anti-VCA) Epstein-Barr nuclear antigen begins to appear 2-4 months after symptoms first are evident and persist for the life of the patient.
Ku antibody is a rare type of antinuclear antibody with either a speckled or nucleolar ANA pattern that is seen in several different autoimmune diseases.
Fleas are widely distributed and partially host specific ectoparasites of man and animal.
Cat flea allergens may contribute to the allergenicity of house dust in areas of heavy flea infestation.
The CDKN2B gene (cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor 2B (p15, inhibits CDK4)) is located on chromosome 9p21.
This gene lies adjacent to the tumor suppressor gene CDKN2A in a region that is frequently mutated and deleted in a wide variety of tumors.
This gene encodes a cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor, which forms a complex with CDK4 or CDK6, and prevents the activation of the CDK kinases, thus the encoded protein functions as a cell growth regulator that controls cell cycle G1 progression.
The expression of this gene was found to be dramatically induced by TGF beta, which suggested its role in the TGF beta induced growth inhibition.
Two alternatively spliced transcript variants of this gene, which encode distinct proteins, have been reported.
Campylobacter (meaning 'twisted bacteria') is a genus of bacteria that are Gram-negative, spiral, and microaerophilic.
Motile, with either uni- or bi-polar flagella, the organisms have a characteristic spiral/corkscrew appearance and are oxidase-positive.
Campylobacter jejuni is now recognized as one of the main causes of bacterial foodborne disease in many developed countries.
At least a dozen species of Campylobacter have been implicated in human disease, with C. jejuni and C. coli the most common.
C. fetus causes spontaneous abortions in cattle and sheep, and is an opportunistic pathogen in humans.
Insulin-like growth factor 2 (IGF-2) is one of three protein hormones that share structural similarity to insulin.
The major role of IGF-2 is as a growth promoting hormone during gestation.
IGF-2 exerts its effects by binding to the IGF-1 receptor.
IGF2 may also bind to the IGF-2 receptor (also called the cation-independent mannose 6-phosphate receptor), which acts to prevent IGF2 responses.
IGF-2 has also been shown to interact with IGFBP3 and transferrin.
IGF-2 is sometimes produced in excess in islet cell tumors, causing hypoglycemia.
Doege-Potter syndrome is a paraneoplastic syndrome in which hypoglycemia is associated with the presence of one or more non-islet fibrous tumors in the pleural cavity.
Loss of imprinting of IGF2 is a common feature in tumors seen in Beckwith-Wiedemann syndrome.
As IGF2 promotes development of fetal pancreatic beta cells, it is believed to be related to some forms of diabetes mellitus.
Noninvasive, quantitative body measurements used to assess nutritional status such as; height, weight, body mass index (BMI), growth pattern indices, percentile ranks, and weight history.
Chromosome 9p21 g.22124478A>G (rs10757278) is associated with increased risk of atherosclerosis, myocardial infarction, and stroke.
In addition, men with the GG genotype at this location are at increased risk of sudden cardiac death.
A triple bolus test or a dynamic pituitary function test is a medical diagnostic procedure used to assess a patient's pituitary function.
Three hormones (usually synthetic analogues) are injected as a bolus into the patient's vein to stimulate the anterior pituitary gland: insulin, gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH), and thyrotropin-releasing hormone (TRH).
The gland's response is assessed by measuring cortisol, growth hormone (GH), prolactin, thyroid-stimulating hormone (TSH), luteinizing hormone (LH) and follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH) hormone levels.
Blood glucose levels are also monitored for hypoglycemia.
A triple bolus test is usually ordered and interpreted by endocrinologists.
A hemoflagellate subspecies of parasitic protozoa that causes Rhodesian sleeping sickness in humans.
It is carried by Glossina pallidipes, G. morsitans and occasionally other species of game-attacking tsetse flies.
In immunology, the CD3 antigen (CD stands for cluster of differentiation) is a protein complex composed of four distinct chains (CD3γ, CD3δ and two times CD3ε) in mammals, that associate with molecules known as the T cell receptor (TCR) and the ζ-chain to generate an activation signal in T lymphocytes.
Pancreatic stone protein (PSP), also known as lithostathine-1-alpha, is a protein mainly secreted by the acinar cells of the exocrine pancreas.
It is associated with islet cell regeneration and may be involved in pancreatic lithogenesis.
Low levels of PSP are found in healthy individuals, but PSP concentration increases with severe infection and organ dysfunction.
The measurement of PSP levels help identify patients with sepsis or those who are at risk of developing sepsis.
PSP also aids in discriminating non-infectious and infection-related inflammation.
Cells expressing CD45 (CD45+) in the absence of CD3 (CD3-) are used as an initial gating population for identifying natural killer (NK) cells.
In addition to CD3-, a majority of NK cells are further gated on the expression of CD56 (neural cell adhesion molecule) and CD16 (low-affinity IgG Fc receptor-FcgammaRIII) cell surface markers.
However, NK cells are not a homogeneous population since not all NK cells express the CD56 and CD16 markers uniformly.
NK cells that express CD56+ and are CD16- are called regulatory or cytokine secreting NK cells, whereas NK cells that express CD16+ and are CD56+/- (dim or negative) are referred to as cytotoxic NK cells.
NK cell deficiencies may be present in various primary (monogenic) immunodeficiencies (e.g.autoimmune lymphoproliferative syndrome (ALPS), familial hemophagocytic lymphohistiocytosis (FHL), Hermansky-Pudlak syndrome, Papillon-Lefevre syndrome, severe combined immunodeficiencies) or in isolated NK cell deficiency (e.g. absolute NK cell deficiency (ANKD), the classic NK cell deficiency (CNKD), and the functional NK cell deficiency (FNKD)).
T cell and B cell crossmatching assesses recipient antibodies against organ donor HLA and other antigens.
T cell and B cell crossmatching results may be reported separately or combined to report the overall interpretation.
For example, if T cell crossmatch results are positive and B cell crossmatch results are positive, the overall interpretation is positive.
If one result is negative and the other is positive, the overall interpretation is undetermined and further investigation is needed.
Aspartyl-Glycine is a dipeptide composed of aspartate and glycine.
It is an incomplete breakdown product of protein digestion or protein catabolism.
Some dipeptides are known to have physiological or cell-signaling effects although most are simply short-lived intermediates on their way to specific amino acid degradation pathways following further proteolysis.
This dipeptide has not yet been identified in human tissues or biofluids and so it is classified as an 'Expected' metabolite.
Lanosterol is a tetracyclic triterpenoid, the compound from which all steroids are derived.
Lanosterol is biochemically synthesized starting from acetyl-CoA by the HMG-CoA reductase pathway.
The critical step is the enzymatic conversion of the acyclic terpene squalene to the polycylic lanosterol via 2,3-squalene oxide.
Ammoniacal nitrogen (NH3-N), is a measure for the amount of ammonia, a toxic pollutant often found in landfill leachate and in waste products, such as sewage, liquid manure and other liquid organic waste products.
It can also be used as a measure of the health of water in natural bodies such as rivers or lakes, or in man made water reservoirs.
The term is used widely in waste treatment and water purification systems.
The circumstances leading to cancer detection/diagnosis.
Yersinia outer proteins (Yops) are plasmid-encoded proteins that help counteract the host immune response.
The low-calcium response protein (LcrV) is not technically an outer protein but is associated with Yops.
All of the Yops use a protein export pathway called TTSS, which enables injection of the virulence proteins into host cells.
Inside the host cells, different Yops have different targets and functions.
YopN, YopB, YopD, and LcrV interact with the TTSS to enable host cell entry 2.
YopE, YopO, YopH, and YopT interfere with host GTPase activity 3.
YopM interferes with host caspase-1 activity 4.
YopP inhibits NF-kB activation
Dimethoate is a colorless, crystalline solid cholinesterase inhibitor that kills insects and mites systemically or on contact.
It is effective against aphids, thrips, planthoppers, whiteflies, ornamental plants, alfalfa, apples, corn, grapefruit, grapes, lemons, melons, oranges, pears, pecans, safflower, sorghum, soybeans, tangerines, tobacco, tomatoes, watermelons, wheat and other vegetables.
Dimethoate is also sprayed onto farm buildings to eradicate house flies and used on livestock against botflies.
Demethoate is extremely toxic if inhaled, ingested or absorbed through the skin.
Symptoms of inhalation exposure include bloody or runny nose, coughing, chest discomfort, shortness of breath, and wheezing.
Extreme exposure will lead to incoordination, slurred speech, loss of reflexes, weakness, fatigue, involuntary muscle contractions, twitching, tremors of the tongue or eyelids, and eventual paralysis of the extremities and respiratory muscles.
Dimethoate is a possible human teratogen and carcinogen.
It is dangerously poisonous to birds, fish, aquatic invertebrates, and honey bees.
Dimethoate is rapidly broken down in the environment and in sewage treatment plants.
A plant species in the Chenopodium genus known for edible greens.
An enzyme that, in the course of purine ribonucleotide biosynthesis, catalyzes the conversion of 5'-phosphoribosyl-4-(N-succinocarboxamide)-5-aminoimidazole to 5'-phosphoribosyl-4-carboxamide-5-aminoimidazole and the conversion of adenylosuccinic acid to AMP. .
Dimethyl sulfate is a chemical compound with formula (CH3O)2SO2.
As the dimethyl ester of sulfuric acid, its formula is often written as (CH3)2SO4 or even Me2SO4, where CH3 or Me is methyl.
Me2SO4 is mainly used as a methylating agent in organic synthesis.
Norfloxacin is an oral broad-spectrum quinolone antibacterial agent used in the treatment of urinary tract infections.
Action::The mechanism of action of norfloxacin involves inhibition of the A subunit of bacterial DNA gyrase, an enzyme which is essential for DNA replication.
Service comment terms (Service comment, Service comment 02, Service comment 03, etc.) were requested by a lab to use as an OBX lab result message for user-defined text results.
Campylobacter bacteria are a major cause of foodborne diarrheal illness in humans and are the most common bacteria that cause gastroenteritis worldwide.
In developed and developing countries, they cause more cases of diarrhea than foodborne Salmonella.
Campylobacter are mainly spiral-shaped, S-shaped or curved, rod-shaped bacteria.
Currently, there are 17 species and 6 subspecies assigned to the genus Campylobacter, of which the most frequently reported in human diseases are C. jejuni (subspecies jejuni) and C. coli.
Phenylglyoxalic acid is the organic compound with the formula C6H5C(O)CO2H.
A hemoflagellate subspecies of parasitic protozoa that causes Gambian or West African sleeping sickness in humans.
The vector host is usually the tsetse fly (Glossina).
Metronidazole is a nitroimidazole anti-infective drug used mainly in the treatment of infections caused by susceptible organisms, particularly anaerobic bacteria and protozoa.
It is marketed by Sanofi-Aventis under the trade name Flagyl, and also by various generic manufacturers.
Metronidazole is also used in the treament of the dermatological condition rosacea, where it is marketed by Galderma under the trade names Rozex and MetroGel.
Lymphocytes containing vacuoles are suggestive of metabolic storage disorder
The F11 (coagulation factor XI) gene is located on chromosome region 4q35.
This gene encodes coagulation factor XI of the blood coagulation cascade.
This protein is present in plasma as a zymogen, which is a unique plasma coagulation enzyme because it exists as a homodimer consisting of two identical polypeptide chains linked by disulfide bonds.
During activation of the plasma factor XI, an internal peptide bond is cleaved by factor XIIa (or XII) in each of the two chains, resulting in activated factor XIa, a serine protease composed of two heavy and two light chains held together by disulfide bonds.
This activated plasma factor XI triggers the middle phase of the intrisic pathway of blood coagulation by activating factor IX.
Defects in this factor lead to Rosenthal syndrome, a blood coagulation abnormality.
The standard thickness parameter is used as part of the calculation for corrected or compensated intraocular pressure (IOPcc).
Thinner corneas may result in underestimated IOPs with tonometry measures, while eyes with thicker corneas may have overestimated IOP values.
Furazolidone is a nitrofuran antibacterial agent.
Furazolidone is also used to treat traveler's diarrhoea, cholera, and bacteremic salmonellosis.
As a veterinary medicine, furazolidone has been used with some success to treat salmonids for Myxobolus cerebralis infections.
Use in treating Helicobacter pylori infections has been proposed.
It is also used for giardiasis (due to Giardia lamblia), though it is not a first line treatment.
Furazolidone is no longer available in the US.
Though an effective antibiotic when all others fail, against extremely drug resistant infections, it has many side effects, and as with other nitrofurans generally, minimum inhibitory concentrations also produce systemic toxicity (tremors, convulsions, peripheral neuritis, gastrointestinal disturbances, depression of spermatogenesis.)
Nitrofurans are recognized by FDA as mutagens/carcinogens, and can no longer be used since 1991.
In molecular biology, cytolethal distending toxin (cdt) is a toxin produced by Proteobacteria, including Escherichia coli, Haemophilus spp and Campylobacter spp.
It consists of three subunits: A, B and C.
The roles of each subunit are unclear, but it is believed that they have separate roles in pathogenicity.
Tunneling of a wound refers to a narrow opening or pathway underneath the skin that may extend in any direction, resulting in dead space with potential for abscess formation.
The RPS6KA3 gene (ribosomal protein S6 kinase, 90kDa, polypeptide 3) is located on chromosome Xp22.2-p22.1.
This gene encodes a member of the RSK (ribosomal S6 kinase) family of serine/threonine kinases.
This kinase contains 2 non-identical kinase catalytic domains and phosphorylates various substrates, including members of the mitogen-activated kinase (MAPK) signalling pathway.
The activity of this protein has been implicated in controlling cell growth and differentiation.
Mutations in this gene have been associated with Coffin-Lowry syndrome (CLS).
The PMM2 gene (phosphomannomutase 2) is located on chromosome 16p13.
The protein encoded by this gene catalyzes the isomerization of mannose 6-phosphate to mannose 1-phosphate, which is a precursor to GDP-mannose necessary for the synthesis of dolichol-P-oligosaccharides.
Mutations in this gene have been shown to cause defects in glycoprotein biosynthesis, which manifests as carbohydrate-deficient glycoprotein syndrome type I.
Hyaluronidase (Api m 2) is a major glycoprotein allergen in honeybee venom (Apis mellifera).
Recombinant Api m 2 (rApi m 2) has similar enzymatic activity, carbohydrate compositions, and IgE binding with the native Api m 2 (nApi m 2).
Due to the high degree of cross-reactivity with vespid and bumblebee hyaluronidases, rApi m 2 may be used as a diagnostic tool for a broad spectrum of hypersensitivity reactions to Hymenoptera venoms.
It is estimated that 15-25% of the general population is sensitized to Hymenoptera venoms, one of the most important among them being venom from honeybee stings.
The reactions to honeybee venom may include large local reactions and systemic anaphylactic reactions such as urticaria, angioedema, gastrointestinal symptoms, and severe pulmonary and cardiovascular events that may have a fatal outcome.
Systemic anaphylactic reactions are in most cases IgE-mediated.
This item is used by the National Center for Health Statistics (NCHS) to report tabulated race data.
The tabulation process includes the elimination of duplicate entries from submitted data as well as the possible combination of entries referring to the same racial category.
Found on NK-cells, some T and B-cells and some monocytes Associated with Large granular lymphocytosis
Clostridium difficile (C. difficile) is a species of bacteria of the genus Clostridium which are gram-positive, anaerobic, spore-forming rods.
It is the most significant cause of pseudomembranous colitis, a severe infection of the colon, often after normal gut flora is eradicated by the use of antibiotics.
Treatment consists of stopping any antibiotics and administering specific anticlostridial antibiotics such as metronidazole.
The PRX gene (peroxiredoxin 6) is located on chromosome 1q25.1.
The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the thiol-specific antioxidant protein family.
This protein is a bifunctional enzyme with two distinct active sites.
It is involved in redox regulation of the cell; it can reduce H(2)O(2) and short chain organic, fatty acid, and phospholipid hydroperoxides.
It may play a role in the regulation of phospholipid turnover as well as in protection against oxidative injury.
Furcation is bone loss, usually due to periodontal disease, which affects the area of the tooth where the roots diverge.
The degree and site of furcation help guide treatment and may be used as a clinical indicator for the severity of periodontal disease and likelihood of future tooth loss.
2,4-Dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D) is a common systemic herbicide used in the control of broadleaf weeds.
It is the most widely used herbicide in the world, and the third most commonly used in North America.
2,4-D is also an important synthetic auxin, often used in laboratories for plant research and as a supplement in plant cell culture media such as MS medium.
Invertebrate organisms that live on or in another organism (the host), and benefit at the expense of the other.
Traditionally excluded from definition of parasites are pathogenic BACTERIA; FUNGI; VIRUSES; and PLANTS; though they may live parasitically.
A corticosteroid that produces anti-inflammatory activity
Several EKG-based criteria exist for measuring left ventricular hypertrophy (LVH).
According to the Sokolow-Lyon index, S wave amplitude in lead V1 plus R wave amplitude in lead V5 or V6 greater than or equal to 35 mV indicates LVH.
Organic, monobasic acids derived from hydrocarbons by the equivalent of oxidation of a methyl group to an alcohol, aldehyde, and then acid.
Fatty acids are saturated and unsaturated (FATTY ACIDS, UNSATURATED).
(Grant & Hackh's Chemical Dictionary, 5th ed)
Freeze-dried content of whole hen's egg.
OXA beta-lactamase genes make up the second largest family of antibiotic resistance genes in gram negative bacteria.
These genes produce enzymes that confer resistance to penicillins, cephalosporins and carbapenems.
Molecular detection is performed to screen for pathogens, control the spread of infections, and for use in epidemiological data.
Erythromycin (also known as eryth ethylsuc) is a macrolide antibiotic which has an antimicrobial spectrum similar to or slightly wider than that of penicillin.
It is effective in respiratory tract infections due to atypical organisms, including mycoplasma.
It is also used to treat outbreaks of chlamydia, syphilis, acne and gonorrhea.
Structurally, this macrocyclic compound contains a 14-membered lactone ring with ten asymmetric centers and two sugars (L-cladinose and D-desoamine), making it a difficult to synthesize commercially.
Erythromycin is produced from a strain of the actinomyces Saccaropolyspora erythraea, formerly known as Streptomyces erythraeus.
CD45 (also known as leukocyte common antigen) is a tyrosine phosphatase specific to hematopoietic cells that is necessary for efficient T and B cell antigen receptor signal transduction.
Multiple CD45 isoforms can be generated by alternative splicing of the A, B and C extracellular domains.
In humans, naive T lymphocytes express CD45RA, which includes the A domain, and activated T lymphocytes express CD45RO, which does not contain A, B or C. CD45RB and RC are not as well-understood in humans as CD45RA and RO, but peripheral T cells that express CD45RA have also been found to express high levels of CD45RB, whereas CD45RO cells do not, and high levels of CD45RC expression on CD8+ T cells may be predictive of acute kidney graft rejection in transplant patients.
Candida famata is a fungus that belongs to the "flavinogenic yeast" group, oversynthesizing riboflavin under conditions of iron starvation.
Alternative names have been listed as Debaryomyces hansenii (the telomorphic form) and Torulopsis candida.
C. famata is often misidentified as C. guilliermondii due to phenotypic similarity.
C. famata is a commensal organism that is found in cheese, dairy products, and the environment.
It is a rare cause of candidiasis, with reported infections of catheters, the retina, mediastinum, and blood.
Resistance to antifungal agents is a concern when treating invasive infections .
Chlamydophila pneumoniae belongs to the Chlamydiaceae bacterial family.
C pneumoniae is a frequent cause of acute respiratory infection, such as, pharyngitis, bronchitis, sinusitis, and community-acquired pneumonia (CAP).
It is typically spread by coughing or sneezing, and initial infection usually occurs in school-age children.
Most infections are self-limited, but outbreaks can occur in group settings such as schools and barracks.
IgG antibodies to C. pneumonia can persist for years after infection.
Enterovirus 71 (EV71) infection may be asymptomatic or may cause diarrhea, rashes, and hand, foot and mouth disease (HFMD).
It also has the potential to cause severe neurological disease.
Biochanin A is an O-methylated isoflavone.
It is a natural organic compound in the class of phytochemicals known as flavonoids.
Biochanin A can be found in red clover, in soy, in alfalfa sprouts, in peanuts, in chickpea (Cicer arietinum) and in other legumes.
Biochanin A is classified as a phytoestrogen and a cancer treatment.
CD34+ cell viability is an important determinant of hematopoietic progenitor cell (HPC) transplant success.
A significant decrease in CD34+ cell viability, reported in one study as 40%, occurs during stem cell processing and cryopreservation.
Reduced CD34+ cell viability has been associated with longer times to platelet engraftment but not with time to neutrophil recovery.
Perampanel is noncompetetive glutamate receptor antagonist that is used to treat partial onset seizures.
It acts by antagonizing the postsynaptic AMPA subtype of the excitatory glutamate receptor, which prevents receptor activation, inhibits neuronal excitation, and stabilizes hyper-excited neural membranes.
A Peripheral Blood Mononuclear Cell (PBMC) is a blood cell having a round nucleus, such as a lymphocyte or a monocyte.
These blood cells are a critical component in the immune system to fight infection and adapt to intruders.
The lymphocyte population consists of T cells (CD4 and CD8 positive ~75%), B cells and NK cells (~25% combined).
These cells are often extracted from whole blood using ficoll, a hydrophilic polysaccharide that separates layers of blood, with monocytes and lymphocytes forming a buffy coat under a layer of plasma.
This buffy coat contains the PBMCs.
Additionally, PBMC can be extracted from whole blood using a hypotonic lysis which will preferentially lyse red blood cells.
This method results in neutrophils and other polymorphonuclear (PMN) cells which are important in innate immune defense to be obtained.
PBMCs are widely used in research and clinical uses every day.
HIV research uses them because PBMCs include CD4+ cells, the cells HIV infects.
Disease-producing bacteria are known to make more deoxyribonuclease (DNase) than benign microbes.
DNase is a exoenzyme excreted from cells that cause the DNA to break now into smaller molecules.
Agar medium containing deoxyribonucleic acid are used for detecting deoxyribonuclease-producing bacteria.
The names Anchovis or Ansjovis are used in Germany and Scandinavia for spice-cured sprat (Sprattus sprattus) or small herring.
Species within groups of fish, like Gadiformes (examples: codfish and hake) and Scombroid fishes (examples: mackerel and tuna) seem to share allergenic components.
The overlap of allergen specificity between the groups seems to be moderate or even small.
Loxapine (sold as Loxapac ®, Loxitane ®) is a typical antipsychotic medication, used primarily in the treatment of schizophrenia.
It is a member of the dibenzodiazepine family and structurally related to clozapine.
Several researchers have argued that Loxapine may behave as an atypical antipsychotic.
Side effects include tardive dyskinesia, neuroleptic malignant syndrome, extrapyramidal side effects, tremor and sedation.
Pneumocystis jiroveci is a fungus.
This parasitic organism was earlier classified as a protozoan, and still is sometimes called by its former name Pneumocystis carinii.
It causes the disease pneumocystis pneumonia (PCP), which afflicts people with weakened immune systems, such as children, the elderly, and especially AIDS patients, in whom it is most commonly observed today.
It was first recognized in institutional epidemics among malnourished children and infants.
The actual life cycle is unknown.
Debate continues as to whether or not the parasite is transmitted through latent infection or active infection.
Historically it was thought to be latent, with a duration of up to a year, but recent studies suggest an active state.
Symptoms of infection include shortness of breath, nonproductive cough, and low grade fever.
Death by asphyxia is a consequent threat, as in any pneumonia.
Proteoglycan 2, bone marrow (natural killer cell activator, eosinophil granule major basic protein), also known as PRG2, is a protein which in humans is encoded by the PRG2 gene.
PRG2 is a 117-residue protein that predominates in eosinophil granules.
It is a potent enzyme against helminths and is toxic towards bacteria and mammalian cells in vitro.
The eosinophil major basic protein also causes the release of histamine from mast cells and basophils, activates neutrophils and alveolar macrophages, and is directly implicated in epithelial cell damage, exfoliation and bronchospasm in asthma.
Dermatophagoides pteronyssinus Der p 1 and Der p 2 can be used for selecting patients for specific immunotherapy (SIT).
Specific IgE antibodies to Der p 1 and Der p 2 indicates that the patient is a suitable candidate for SIT to house dust mite.
Der p 1 and Der p 2 complement the extract based allergens d1 d2, in providing a more detailed sensitization profile of mite allergic patients.
Discharge summary is a synopsis of a patient's admission to a hospital; it provides pertinent information for the continuation of care following discharge.
The summary may include the reason for hospitalization, procedures performed, the care, treatment and services provided, the patient's condition and disposition at discharge, information provided to the patient and family, and provisions for follow-up care.
A nonmetallic element of the halogen group that is represented by the atomic symbol I, atomic number 53, and atomic weight of 126.90.
It is a nutritionally essential element, especially important in thyroid hormone synthesis.
In solution, it has anti-infective properties and is used topically.
For epidemiologic purposes, multiple drug resistant organisms (MDROs) are defined as microorganisms, predominantly bacteria, that are resistant to one or more classes of antimicrobial agents.
Although the names of certain MDROs describe resistance to only one agent (e.g., MRSA, VRE), these pathogens are frequently resistant to most available antimicrobial agents.
These highly resistant organisms deserve special attention in healthcare facilities.
The Hypopnea Index is the hourly rate of hypopneas during a sleep study.
Tritrichomonas foetus is a single celled flagellated protozoan parasite that is known to be a pathogen of the bovine reproductive tract as well as the intestinal tract of cats.
In cattle, the organism is transmitted to the female vagina and uterus from the foreskin of the bull where the parasite is known to reside.
It causes infertility, and, at times, has caused spontaneous abortions in the first trimester.
Cases of infection in cattle have declined due to the use of artificial insemination.
In the last ten years, there have been reports of Tritrichomonas foetus in the feces of young cats that have diarrhea and live in households with multiple cats.
Description Tritrichomonas foetus belongs to the order Trichomonadida in the Kingdom Protoctista.
The parasite is 5-25 µm in size and is spindle shaped with four flagella which are whiplike projections and an undulating or wavy membrane.
Their movement is jerky and in a forward direction.
Aspartic acid is a dicarboxylic amino acid with acidic R groups which is a cosubstrate with glutamic acid for aspartate aminotransferase (AST).
Aspartic acid is used in pyrimidine biosynthesis and is a metabolite in the urea cycle and participates in gluconeogenesis.
Increased in dicarboxylic aminoaciduria.
(Information from ARUP Laboratories 9/14/06)
Naegleria fowleri is a free-living amebae that can infect the central nervous system (CNS) and cause life-threatening disease.
The route of entry and clinical course of infection varies with the type of ameba involved.
N. fowleri live in warm, stagnant fresh water lakes and nonsterile water.
The amebae is acquired by entering through the nasal sinuses, traveling along the olfactory nerve through the skull and into the central nervous system (CNS).
N. fowleri causes rapidly progressive primary amebic meningoencephalitis (PAM) and is typically fatal within several days of exposure.
Most diagnoses are made after death due to the rarity of the condition.
The fractional excretion of phosphate is a measure of the percentage of phosphate excreted in the urine versus the phosphate reabsorbed by the kidney.
The presence of SLA antibodies has almost 100% specificity for autoimmune hepatitis, although only 12-30% have these antibodies.
Thus, a negative SLA IgG test does not rule out autoimmune hepatitis.
HIV infection decreases the number of CD4 T-cells, also called T4 helper cells, the ratio of CD4 to CD8 T-cells and the number of CD8+ T-cells.
These counts are ordered frequently to guide decisions about anti-retroviral therapy.
Laboratories usually report both percentage and absolute count.
When you map CD4 and CD8 markers, be careful!
Since at least 1997, CDC has required the detection of both CD3+ and CD4+ to identify T4 helper cells, because the CD3 marker is needed to identify T-cell.
So, any tests that report T4 helper cells are really reporting cells that carry BOTH the CD3+ and the CD4+ markers.
The measure name may be CD3+ CD4+ cells, CD4+ marker, T4 cells or even just CD4+ (a misnomer).
Exactly analogous rules apply to CD8+.
Measures that include only CD4 or only CD8 in their name are really measuring CD3+CD4+ cells or CD3+CD8+ cells, respectively and should be reported with the LOINC code that includes both of those markers.
The panel named T cell subsets will usually contain both CD3 + CD4 and CD3 + CD8 counts.
These names assume that one has already gated to lymphocytes only.
Lymphocytes are identified by CD45 markers.
So a CD45+CD3+CD4+ is a more complicated way to name CD3+C4+ cells and in the context of looking for CD4 helper T cells they are the same.
The same applies to other flow cytometer measures that are looking only at lymphocytes (B-cells, NK cells, etc).
CD40 is a costimulatory protein found on antigen presenting cells and is required for their activation.
The binding of CD154 (CD40L) on TH cells to CD40 activates antigen presenting cells and induces a variety of downstream effects.
The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the TNF-receptor superfamily.
This receptor has been found to be essential in mediating a broad variety of immune and inflammatory responses including T cell-dependent immunoglobulin class switching, memory B cell development, and germinal center formation.
AT-hook transcription factor AKNA is reported to coordinately regulate the expression of this receptor and its ligand, which may be important for homotypic cell interactions.
Adaptor protein TNFR2 interacts with this receptor and serves as a mediator of the signal transduction.
The interaction of this receptor and its ligand is found to be necessary for amyloid-beta-induced microglial activation, and thus is thought to be an early event in Alzheimer disease pathogenesis.
Two alternatively spliced transcript variants of this gene encoding distinct isoforms have been reported.
The appearance of abnormally long or short microsatellites in an individual's DNA is referred to as microsatellite instability.
Microsatellite instability (MSI) is a condition manifested by damaged DNA due to defects in the normal DNA repair process.
Sections of DNA called microsatellites, which consist of a sequence of repeating units of 1-6 base pairs in length, become unstable and can shorten or lengthen.
Microsatellites are also known as simple sequence repeats (SSRs).
The IDUA gene, located on chromosome 4p16.3, encodes alpha-L-iduronidase, a lysosomal enzyme that hydrolyzes the terminal alpha-L-iduronic acid residues of two glycosaminoglycans, dermatan sulfate and heparan sulfate.
Mutations in the IDUA gene lead to alpha-L-iduronidase deficiency, which is associated with mucopolysaccharidosis type I (MPSI).
MPSI has 3 forms: IH (Hurler syndrome), IH/S (Hurler-Scheie syndrome), and IS (Scheie syndrome).
Hurler syndrome is the most severe form of MPSI, is usually diagnosed in the first year of life, and is characterized by hepatosplenomegaly, corneal clouding, and severe cognitive delay.
Patients with Hurler syndrome typically die before the age of 10.
In contrast, Hurler-Scheie and Scheie syndromes are usually diagnosed later in childhood or adulthood and have little, if any, cognitive delay.
Reticulocyte distribution width (RDWr) is a measure of the variability in reticulocyte volume.
Along with other reticulocyte indices, RDWr can be used to monitor treatment efficacy for certain types of anemia, such as magnesium therapy in sickle cell disease.
RDWr is analogous to red cell distribution width (RDW), and RDWr and RDW tend to have similar values.
Chromosome region 4q12 rearrangements are associated with myeloid and lymphoid neoplasms due to disruption of the PDGFRA and/or FGFR1 genes.
Patients with rearrangement(s) involving PDGFRA most commonly present with chronic eosinophilic leukemia but also can present as acute myeloid leukemia (AML) and/or T-lymphoblastic leukemia/lymphoma (T-ALL).
Patients with FGFR1 involvement have various presentations including AML, T- or B-lymphoblastic leukemia/lymphoma (B-ALL), or a mixed phenotype acute leukemia.
Imatinib mesylate (imatinib) is the first-line therapy for patients with abnormalities of PDGFRA, whereas patients with FGFR1 fusions are resistant to this therapy and carry a poor prognosis.
The European anchovy (Engraulis encrasicolus) is a forage fish somewhat related to the herring.
Anchovies are placed in the family Engraulidae.
Cefozopran (INN) is a fourth-generation cephalosporin.
Type I anti-neuronal nuclear antibody (ANNA-1) is present in patients with paraneoplastic syndromes (paraneoplastic sensory neuropathy or paraneoplastic encephalomyelitis) most commonly associated with small-cell lung carcinoma (SCLC).
ANNA-2 is present in patients with midbrain encephalitis, cerebellar ataxia, eye movement disorders (usually opsoclonus), and occasionally myelopathy.
Neoplasms most often associated with ANNA-2 are breast carcinoma and SCLC.
ANNA-1 and ANNA-2 may be detectable before the associated neoplasm is detectable.
Occupational allergen mix 5 (pax5) detects isocyanates HDI (Hexamethylene diisocyanate, k77), MDI (Diphenylmethane diisocyanate, k76), and TDI (Toluene diisocyante, k75) as well as Phthalic anhydride (k79) IgE antibodies.
Testing for IgE antibodies may be used to help diagnose an allergic disease or the cause of an anaphylactic episode in a patient.
Enzyme and fluorescent-based assays, which were preceded by the RAST test (Radio-AllergoSorbent Test), are performed to detect allergen-specific IgE in the patient's serum.
Beta globulins are a group of globular proteins in plasma that are more mobile in alkaline or electrically charged solutions than gamma globulins, but less mobile than alpha globulins.
Examples of beta globulins include: beta 2-microglobulin, plasminogen, angiostatins, properdin, sex hormone-binding globulin, and transferrin.
The beta globulins consist of 2 major peaks, beta-1 and beta -2.
Beta-1 is composed mostly of transferrin, and beta-2 contains beta-lipoprotein.
The VPS13B gene (vacuolar protein sorting 13 homolog B (yeast)) is located on chromosome 8q22.2.
This gene encodes a potential transmembrane protein that may function in vesicle-mediated transport and sorting of proteins within the cell.
This protein may play a role in the development and the function of the eye, hematological system, and central nervous system.
Mutations in this gene have been associated with Cohen syndrome.
Multiple splice variants encoding distinct isoforms have been identified for this gene.
In molecular biology, elastase is an enzyme from the class of proteases (peptidases), that break down proteins.
Elastase is inhibited by the acute-phase protein α1-antitrypsin (A1AT), which binds almost irreversibly to the active site of elastase and trypsin.
A1AT is normally secreted by the liver cells into the serum.
α1-antitryspin deficiency (A1AD) leads to uninhibited destruction of elastic fiber by elastase; the main result is pulmonary emphysema.
Propionaldehyde or propanal is the organic compound with the formula CH3CH2CHO.
It is a saturated 3-carbon aldehyde and is a structural isomer of acetone.
It is a colorless liquid with a slightly irritating, fruity odour.
One of the six homologous soluble proteins that bind insulin-like growth factors (SOMATOMEDINS) and modulate their mitogenic and metabolic actions at the cellular level.
Glutamine is metabolized to other amino acids, including glutamate, alanine, citrulline and arginine.
Glutamine's associated disorders are urea cycle defects and it may be elevated in urine in citullinemia, Hartnup disease, and ornithine transcarbamylase deficiency.
APOB and LDLR are the most common genes associated with familial hypercholesterolemia (FH).
APOB encodes apolipoprotein B, a primary protein component of low-density lipoprotein (LDL), very low-density lipoprotein (VLDL) and chylomicrons.
Mutations in the APOB gene affect the region of apolipoprotein B that binds to the LDL receptor, which results in decreased receptor binding, leading to increased circulating levels of LDL.
LDLR encodes the LDL cell membrane receptor, which binds LDL and transports it into the cell.
LDLR mutations result in defective binding of LDL to the LDL receptor, resulting in increased circulating levels of LDL.
A cell is a single unit or compartment, enclosed by a border, wall or membrane.
As a term, cell has become a general-purpose metaphor for building blocks which serve to compose larger structures.
Flumequine is a quinolone, a first generation broad spectrum antibiotic often used in veterinarian medicine for the treatment of enteric infections.
It is occasionally used in human medicine to treat urinary tract infections.
Plasmin inhibitor monitors prolonged infusions of streptokinase or urokinase.
Detection of congenital bleeding problems associated with a 2 Plasma Inibitor deficiency.
A genus of the family Chlamydiaceae that causes a variety of diseases in vertebrates including humans, mice, and swine.
Chlamydia are gram-negative and produce glycogen.
The H antigen is produced by a specific fucosyltransferase.
Depending upon a person's ABO blood type, the H antigen is converted into either the A antigen, B antigen, or both.
If a person has blood group O, the H antigen remains unmodified.
Therefore, the H antigen is present in the highest amounts in blood type O and in the least amounts in blood type AB.
The history and biochemical nature of the H antigen is entangled with that of the ABO and Lewis blood group systems.
The recognition of the Hh blood group probably begins with the discovery by Bhende et al. (1952) of the first three individuals who completely lacked A and B antigens but were not group O.
This null phenotype was named "Bombay" after the city where it was found.
Although the Bombay phenotype is extremely rare in most populations, a number of examples have been found in India over the years.
Early suggestions were that this type was due to a new allele at the ABO locus, but others suggested an inhibitor gene and finally the possibility of a genetically independent but related gene.
We now know that the Bombay phenotype is due to a recessive gene at the H locus; ie. h and is therefore referred to as Oh.
Subsequently, intermediate form of the H gene have been found and these individuals are called "para-Bombays".
Conjugated protein-carbohydrate compounds including mucins, mucoid, and amyloid glycoproteins.
Murray Valley encephalitis virus (MVEV) is a zoonotic flavivirus endemic to northern Australia and New Guinea and is the causal agent of Murray Valley encephalitis.
MVEV is related to West Nile virus Kunjin strain but is more virulent for humans compared to West Nile Kunjin.
The majority of MVEV infections are asymptomatic or cause a non-specific febrile illness that may be associated with headache, myalgias and rash, but approximately 1 out of 150 to 1000 MVEV infections result in clinical encephalitis.
The incubation period is one to four weeks, and patients with encephalitis usually present with fever, headache, malaise, and altered mental status.
Complications include progressive neurological deterioration, parkinsonian tremor, cranial nerve palsies, peripheral neuropathy, coma, and flaccid paralysis.
The reported case fatality rate of human MVEV encephalis is between 15-30%.
Laboratory confirmation of a suspected MVEV infection requires either the isolation of the virus itself, detection of MVEV RNA, a fourfold rise in the IgG titer between acute and convalescent serum samples, or detection of IgM in serum or CSF (in the absence of cross-reactive antibodies).
Indicates whether a patient's emergency department (ED) visit is an initial or follow-visit.
An ED episode of care begins with the initial visit for care for a particular problem and ends when the patient is no longer continuing treatment.
A subsequent visit for the problem is considered a follow-up ED episode of care.
An initial visit may be diagnostic in nature whereas a follow-up visit may be to check progress or continue therapy.
The CPT2 gene (carnitine palmitoyltransferase 2) is located on chromosome 1p32.
The protein encoded by this gene is a nuclear protein which is transported to the mitochondrial inner membrane.
Together with carnitine palmitoyltransferase I, the encoded protein oxidizes long-chain fatty acids in the mitochondria.
Defects in this gene are associated with mitochondrial long-chain fatty-acid (LCFA) oxidation disorders.
Phosphatidylethanols (PEths) are a marker of alcohol consumption.
PEths are abnormal phospholipids that are formed from phosphatidylcholines in the presence of alcohol, where the end products are choline and PEths.
They have a half-life of about 4 days and are can detect lower levels of alcohol consumption compared to other biomarkers such as carbohydrate deficient transferrin.
POPEth (1-palmitoyl-2-oleoyl-sn-glycero-3-phosphoethanol), PLPEth (1-palmitoyl-2-linoleoyl-sn-glycero-3-phosphoethanol), and DOPEth (1,2-dioleoyl-sn-glycero-3-phosphoethanol) are the most common PEths found in blood.
The fractional excretion of urea is a measure of the percentage of urea excreted in the urine versus the urea reabsorbed by the kidney.
Erythropoietin is a glycoprotein hormone that regulates erythropoiesis.
Its levels vary based on the degree of anemia, and most patients with anemia will have higher levels.
Levels are also measured to help differentiate primary and secondary polycythemia and monitor erythropoietin-producing tumors.
Morning levels may be higher due to diurnal rhythms.
Levels are increased with renal neoplasms, benign tumors, polycystic kidney disease, renal cysts, hydronephrosis, and pregnancy.
Information from LOINC partner 1 and Tietz' "Clinical Guide to Laboratory Tests," Wu AHB, 2006.
Humulus japonicus (Japanese hop, synonym H. scandens) is an ornamental plant in the Cannabaceae family.
A benzodiazepine derivative used as an anticonvulsant and hypnotic.
Doxepin (Sinequan) is a psychotropic agent with tricyclic antidepressant and anxiolytic properties, known under many brand-names such as Aponal, Adapine, Doxal (Orion), Deptran, Sinquan and Sinequan (Pfizer).
As doxepin hydrochloride, it is the active ingredient in cream-based preparations (Zonalon and Xepin) for the treatment of dermatological itch.
Doxepin is also used for the treatment of sleep maintenance, and the tradename of doxepin for this indication is Silenor.
Nordoxepin (N-desmethyldoxepin) is the major metabolite of doxepin.
p40 antigen is a marker for squamous cell carcinoma of the lung and can be used to differentiate squamous cell from lung adenocarcinoma, which does not express p40.
Narcotic analgesic related to codeine, but more potent and more addicting by weight.
It is used also as cough suppressant.
Eastern Black oak (Quercus velutina), or more commonly known as simply Black Oak is an oak in the red oak (Quercus sect.
Lobatae) group of oaks.
It is native to eastern North America from southern Ontario south to northern Florida and southern Maine west to northeastern Texas.
It is a common tree in the Indiana Dunes and other sandy dunal ecosystems along the southern shores of Lake Michigan.
The L80V mutation is associated with Lamivudine and Adefovir resistance.
Von Willebrand disease (VWD) is caused by either a qualitative or quantitative deficit of the multimeric glycoprotein known as von Willebrand factor (VWF).
VWD affects 1-2% of the world population, making it the most common inherited bleeding disorder.
VWF plays a crucial role in primary hemostasis by triggering platelet adhesion to injured vessel walls and promoting platelet aggregation.
VWF also protects factor VIII from premature degradation in the peripheral circulation.
To diagnose VWD, there are several tests that must be run including ristocetin cofactor activity, VWF antigen quantitative assay, Factor VIII activity, and collagen binding assay.
Additional tests are needed to determine the subtype of VWD.
The ristocetin cofactor activity can be measured using platelet aggregation or platelet agglutination.
Both of these assays measure the agglutination of platelets by VWF in the presence of ristocetin.
When anti-VWF antibodies bind to the epitope of VWF the ability of VWF to aggregate platelets to the area of injury is compromised.
Patients who are most likely to develop anti-VWF include patients with complete or partial VWF gene deletions, patients who have received multiple transfusions, and patients with a family history of developing anti-VWF antibodies.
A serotype of SALMONELLA ENTERICA which is an agent of PARATYPHOID FEVER in humans.
An acid-base indicator which is colorless in acid solution, but turns pink to red as the solution becomes alkaline.
It is used medicinally as a cathartic.
The oppA1 gene is a member of a family of three genes; oppA-1, oppA-2, and oppA-3, that encode predicted peptide-binding proteins.
Peptide-binding protein dependent transport systems are recognized to play important roles in microbial cell signaling and virulence.
Norpropoxyphene is a major metabolite of Propoxyphene (Darvon), an opioid analgesic (related to opium) similar to methadone.
Famphur is a cholinesterase inhibitor that is poured on or injected in cattle or reindeer to control grubs, cattle lice, reindeer grub fly, and reindeer nostril fly.
Famphur can cause skin and eye irritation or damage in humans, and is toxic or fatal if swallowed or inhaled.
Contact of famphur with fire may generate irritating, corrosive, toxic gases.
It is slowly hydrolyzed in water, having a half-life of 60 days.
Evidence suggests that famphur does not bioaccumulate in fish or aquatic wildlife.
An organochloride, organochlorine, chlorocarbon, chlorinated hydrocarbon, or chlorinated solvent is an organic compound containing at least one covalently bonded chlorine atom.
Their wide structural variety and divergent chemical properties lead to a broad range of applications.
Many derivatives are controversial because of the effects of these compounds on the environment.
Procollagen type I N-terminal propeptide is considered a sensitive marker of bone formation and it is particularly useful for monitoring treatment for osteoporosis in postmenopausal women, and Paget's disease of the bone.
Type I collagen constitutes 90% of bone proteins and is synthesized as type I procollagen.
During the extracellular processing of type I procollagen, the amino terminal and carboxy terminal propeptide are separated.
These propeptides circulate in the bloodstream, where they are markers of bone formation.
Procollagen type I N-terminal propeptide circulates as different forms, including the intact authentic trimeric procollagen type I N-terminal propeptide, a monomer, and several fragments.
D-3-phosphoglycerate dehydrogenase (3-PGDH) is encoded by the PHGDH gene, located on chromosome 1p12, and functions as part of the L-serine biosynthesis pathway to catalyze the conversion of 3-phospho-D-glycerate to 3-phosphohydroxypyruvate.
Defects in the PHGDH gene are associated with two disorders: phosphoglycerate dehydrogenase(PGDH) deficiency and Neu-Laxova syndrome 1 (NLS1).
PGDH deficiency is associated with congenital microcephaly, psychomotor retardation, and seizures.
NLS1 is a lethal, autosomal recessive syndrome associated with ichthyosis, marked intrauterine growth restriction, microcephaly, hypoplastic lungs and central nervous system anomalies.
Antibodies to 3-PGDH are detected in patients with chronic liver diseases, primiarily autoimmune hepatitis (AIH).
Adenoviruses, medium-sized (90-100 nm), non-enveloped icosohedral viruses with double-stranded DNA, have over 50 immunologically distinct types that cause infections in humans.
Adenoviruses usually cause respiratory illness with symptoms ranging from the common cold to pneumonia, croup, and bronchitis.
Adenoviruses can cause other illnesses such as gastroenteritis, conjunctivitis, cystitis, and less commonly, neurological disease.
Infants and individuals with weakened immune systems are at high risk for severe complications of adenovirus infection and adenoviruses commonly cause acute respiratory illness in military recruits.
Some asymptomatic people infected with adenoviruses have ongoing infections in their tonsils, adenoids, and intestines and can shed the virus for months or years.
The virus can persist outside the body for long periods.
Adenovirus infections can be detected using antigen detection, polymerase chain reaction assay, virus isolation, and serology.
Typing is usually done by hemagglutination-inhibition and/or neutralization with type-specific antisera or by molecular methods.
As of October 2014 there is no adenovirus vaccine for the general public, however an oral vaccine against types 4 and 7 was approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration in March 2011 for U.S. military personnel.
The vaccine is recommended by the U.S. Department of Defense for military recruits entering basic training in order to prevent acute respiratory disease.
Most adenovirus infections are mild and typically require only treatment of symptoms.
There are seven subgroups or species of adenovirus labeled A through G.
The subgroups of adenovirus infect certain areas of the body.
Subgroups A and F are usually found in the gastrointestinal tract.
Subgroups B, C and E tend to infect the respiratory tract.
Subgroup D is the cause of epidemic kerato-conjunctivitis.
Subgroup G causes gastroenteritis.
The DNA homology between the subgroups is less than 20%.
Galactomannin is a component of the fungal cell wall and an exoantigen of Aspergillus.
Its detection is associated with invasive aspergillosis.
Insertion of a cerebral ventricular drain (CVD, also called an external ventricle drain) is a livesaving procedure for removing cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) that has excessively accumulated in the brain due to a disruption in the equilibrium between its production and absorption back into the body.
Insertion of a CVD helps reduce intracranial hypertension by diverting the CSF as well as intraventricular blood.
It also allows clinicians to continually monitor the intracranial pressure so that drainage can occur as needed.
It can also be used to collect CSF for testing or to administer medication.
A blood product is any component of the blood which is collected from a donor for use in a blood transfusion.
Whole blood is uncommonly used in transfusion medicine at present; most blood products consist of specific processed components such as red blood cells, blood plasma, or platelets.
The MC4R gene (melanocortin 4 receptor) is located on chromosome 18q22.
The protein encoded by this gene is a membrane-bound receptor and member of the melanocortin receptor family.
The encoded protein interacts with adrenocorticotropic and MSH hormones and is mediated by G proteins.
This is an intronless gene.
Defects in this gene are a cause of autosomal dominant obesity.
Etravirine (brand name Intelence, formerly known as TMC125) is a drug used for the treatment of HIV.
Etravirine is a non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitor (NNRTIs).
Unlike the currently available agents in the class, resistance to other NNRTIs does not seem to confer resistance to etravirine.
Etravirine is marketed by Tibotec, a subsidiary of Johnson & Johnson.
In January 2008, the Food and Drug Administration approved its use for patients with established resistance to other drugs, making it the 30th anti-HIV drug approved in the United States and the first to be approved in 2008.
It was also approved for use in Canada on April 1, 2008.
Axis measurement increment is the specificity to which a ophthalmologic device can measure the axis, typically 1 or 5 degrees.
For example, a 5 degree increment allows measurement of 5, 10, 15 degrees, etc., while a 1 degree increment allows finer measurement to a single degree.
A sulfonamide that inhibits the enzyme carbonic anhydrase and is used as topical anti-infective, especially in burn therapy.
The chemical with formula C6H15NO2.
It is a precursor for one type of nitrogen mustard, namely HN1 mustard.
Simple protein, one of the prolamines, derived from the gluten of wheat, rye, etc. May be separated into 4 discrete electrophoretic fractions.
It is the toxic factor associated with celiac disease.
The genus Borrelia was first described in the 1870s.
They are spirochetes that differ in length, diameter, coil regularity and tightness, and number of periplasmic flagella.
While length ranges from 8-30 micrometers, their widths are similar across species.
Hematophagous arthropods are the vectors that transmit all of the Borrelia species to vertebrate hosts and include soft ticks, hard ticks and lice.
B burgdorferi, which causes is the main cause of Lyme disease in the United States, is transmitted exclusively by the hard Ixodes ticks.
B recurrentis, the organism that causes louse-borne relapsing fever, is transmitted by human body lice.
A short list of Borrelia species with the disease associated with its infection is listed below.
B burgdorferi, B mayonii, B afzelii, B garinii; Lyme borreliosis B recurrentis; Louse-borne relapsing fever B duttonii, B crocidurae, B hermsii; Tick-borne relapsing fever B miyamotoi; Acute febrile illness B lonestari; Southern tick-associated rash illness
When discussing visual acuity, such as 20/40, the numerator is the testing distance.
In the US, 20 is measured in feet.
In the metric system, the testing distance is measured in meters.
Normal visual acuity is commonly referred to as 20/20 vision and the metric equivalent is 6/6 vision.
The denominator is also a distance - the distance at which the size of the tested letter would subtend an arc of 5 minutes; what changes is the size of the letters and the distance at which the letters subtend that 5 minutes of angle.
A letter of the size on the 20/40 line of an eye chart would be able to be seen by a patient with normal (20/20) vision at a testing distance of 40 feet, but for a patient with reduced vision (e.g. 20/40) the letter would need to be moved closer (to 20 feet) in order to be seen.
When reading an eyechart in an ophthalmology exam room, mirrors are used to simulate a 20 foot testing distance (as the room is typically much shorter than 20 feet in length).
Visual acuity is expressed as 20/20, 20/40 up to about 20/800.
Vision worse than that is often expressed qualitatively as: CF- Count Fingers HM- Hand Motion LP- Light Perception NLP- No Light Perception
Semisynthetic ampicillin-derived acylureido penicillin.
It has been proposed for infections with certain anaerobes and may be useful in inner ear, bile, and CNS infections.
Iothalamate clearance is one method used to measure a patient's glomerular filtration rate (GFR).
Iothalamate is a type of radiographic contrast that is primarily cleared by kidney glomeruli, and timed measurements of intravascular and urine iothalamate are used to calculate the actual GFR.
Iothalamate clearance is less likely to overestimate the true GFR compared to creatinine clearance.
Interleukin 3, also known as IL-3, is a protein that in humans is encoded by the IL3 gene.
Platelet factor 4 is used to diagnose immune-mediated, heparin-induced thrombocytopenia (Type II HIT).
Tenofovir is an antiretroviral drug used in the treatment of HIV.
Drug resistance reports assist with treatment decisions.
HPIV-1 causes biennial outbreaks of croup in the fall (presently in the United States during odd numbered years).
HPIVs are negative-sense, single-stranded RNA viruses that possess fusion and hemagglutinin-neuraminidase glycoprotein "spikes" on their surface.
HPIVs are spread from respiratory secretions through close contact with infected persons or contact with contaminated surfaces or objects.
HPIVs are ubiquitous and infect most people during childhood.
Bromsulphthalein is a dye used in liver function tests.
Its excretion is measured.
Lymphocytic choriomeningitis is caused by an RNA virus now classified as an arenavirus.
Rodents are the primary reservoir.
Clinically, infection usually presents as an acute influenza-like illness.
Symptoms develop 5-10 days after exposure.
Most patients develop fevers of 101-104 degrees F with chills and muscle rigidity.
Other symptoms may include malaise, retro-orbital headache, photophobia, weakness, anorexia, nausea, and light-headedness.
Some patients may experience sore throat.
Symptoms may improve after five days to three weeks, but some suffer relapse with meningeal symptoms.
The PNKD gene (paroxysmal nonkinesigenic dyskinesia) is located on chromosome 2q35.
This gene is thought to play a role in the regulation of myofibrillogenesis.
Mutations in this gene have been associated with the movement disorder paroxysmal non-kinesigenic dyskinesia.
Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants.
A phenothiazine derivative with histamine H1-blocking, antimuscarinic, and sedative properties.
It is used as an antiallergic, in pruritus, for motion sickness and sedation, and also in animals.
Endive, Cichorium endivia is a leaf vegetable belonging to the daisy family.
Endive can be cooked or used raw in salads.
Very-low-density lipoprotein (VLDL) is a type of lipoprotein made by the liver.
VLDL is one of the five major groups of lipoproteins (chylomicrons, VLDL, low-density lipoprotein, intermediate-density lipoprotein, high-density lipoprotein) that enable fats and cholesterol to move within the water-based solution of the bloodstream.
VLDL is assembled in the liver from triglycerides, cholesterol, and apolipoproteins and converted in the bloodstream to low-density lipoprotein (LDL).
VLDL3 is rich in tryglycerides and, therefore, a a significant risk factor for heart disease.
The HNA 4 system has two antigens, HNA-4a and HNA-4b located on CD11b.
An intermediate filament protein found predominantly in smooth, skeletal, and cardiac muscle cells. Localized at the Z line.
MW 50,000 to 55,000 is species dependent.
Serum cryoglobulins are immunoglobulins that, in vitro, precipitate at temperatures below 37°C and redissolve on rewarming.
Cryoglobulins can be transient and without clinical implications or they can be a marker of significant disease.
Monoclonal cryoglobulins, which are IgG, IgM, or IgA, or monoclonal free light chains, are usually associated with haematological disorders.
Mixed cryoglobulins, which contain polyclonal immunoglobulins with or without a monoclonal component, are found in many infectious and systemic disorders.
There is a significant association between essential mixed cryoglobulinaemia and hepatitis C virus infection (> 90%).
Cupressus arizonica, the Arizona Cypress, is a species of cypress native to the southwest of North America, in the United States in Arizona, southwest New Mexico, southern California, and the Chisos Mountains of west Texas, and in Mexico in Coahuila, Chihuahua, Durango, Tamaulipas, Zacatecas and northern Baja California.
Veterinary medicine: Mycoplasma suis is an organism that lacks a cell wall and is unable to be cultured in vitro.
It is the causative agent of porcine eperythrozoonosis or infectious anemia.
It attaches to the red blood cells of pigs by adhesion, then invades them, forages nutrients, causes immune-mediated lysis, and finally induces eryptosis, or suicidal death of the cell.
Infection of M suis can be devastating to pig growers and cause huge economic loss.
M suis infections occur worldwide and cause acute or chronic hemolytic anemia, growth retardation in feeder pigs, and poor reproduction in sows.
M suis is suspected to be transmitted by mosquitoes, biting flies, and the hog louse.
Other modes of transmission include contaminated surgical instruments such as castration knives, and needles used repeatedly during vaccination.
Because M suis cannot be cultured in vitro, there is little knowledge of its biology and pathogenicity.
The NAGLU gene (N-acetyl-alpha-glucosaminidase) is located on chromosome 17q21.2.
This gene encodes an enzyme that degrades heparan sulfate by hydrolysis of terminal N-acetyl-D-glucosamine residues in N-acetyl-alpha-D-glucosaminides.
Defects in this gene are the cause of mucopolysaccharidosis type IIIB (MPS-IIIB), also known as Sanfilippo syndrome B.
This disease is characterized by the lysosomal accumulation and urinary excretion of heparan sulfate.
Pentachlorophenol (C6 HCl5 O) is a synthetic fungicide which is an organochloride.
It is toxic to humans.
Pentachlorophenol has historically been used as a pesticide and wood preservative.
In 1984 (or 1987 references vary), the purchase and use of pentachlorophenol was restricted in the United States, and the general public may no longer buy it.
It still has some industrial use as a wood preservative for utility poles, railroad ties, and wharf pilings.
Exposures to pentachlorophenol measured in minute quantities has been shown to affect the endocrine system of vertebrate life forms and may lead to immune system disfunction, and disruption of normal sexual, cognitive, physical and emotional development.
It has also been linked to trans-generational cancer through disruption of foetal development.
Its main action on the cell is to uncouple oxidative phosphorylation and therefore deplete levels of cellular ATP.
Chlortetracycline is a tetracycline antibiotic used primarily in water or feed treatments or topical for ophthalmic use.
Many bacteria are now resistant to chlortetracycline.
However, it may still be useful in treating mycoplasma, rickettsia, spirochetes, and Chlamydia.
In humans, reticulocytes are erythroid cells that have just undergone extrusion of their nucleus.
They still contain some organelles that gradually decrease in number as the cells mature.
Ribosomes are last to disappear.
Certain staining techniques cause components of the ribosomes to precipitate into characteristic "reticulum" (not the same as the endoplasmic retuculum), hence the name reticulocytes.
Walnuts (genus Juglans) belong to the family of Juglandaceae.
They are deciduous trees, 10-40 meters tall (about 30-130 ft), with pinnate leaves 200-900 millimetres long (7-35 in), with 5-25 leaflets.
The shoots have chambered pith, a character shared with the wingnuts (Pterocarya), but not the hickories (Carya) in the same family.
The 23 species in the genus range across the north temperate Old World from southeast Europe east to Japan, and more widely in the New World from southeast Canada west to California and south to Argentina.
Lysophosphatidylcholine(24:0), or LysoPC(24:0), is a lysophospholipid (LyP).
It is a monoglycerophospholipid in which a phosphorylcholine moiety occupies a glycerol substitution site Further, LysolPC(24:0) consists of one chain of lignoceric acid at the C-1 (sn-1) position.
LysoPC(24:0) is measured in dried blood spots (DBS) and used in conjunction with other Lysophosphatidylcholines for the diagnosis, monitoring and treatment of X-ALD other peroxisomal disorders.
Ethyl-4-hydroxybenzoate, also known as ethyl paraben or E214, belongs to the class of organic compounds known as p-hydroxybenzoic acid alkyl esters.
These are aromatic compounds containing a benzoic acid, which is esterified with an alkyl group and para-substituted with a hydroxyl group.
Ethyl-4-hydroxybenzoate exists as a solid, slightly soluble (in water), and a very weakly acidic compound (based on its pKa).
Within the cell, ethyl-4-hydroxybenzoate is primarily located in the cytoplasm.
Ethyl-4-hydroxybenzoate exists in all eukaryotes, ranging from yeast to humans.
Ethyl-4-hydroxybenzoate is a mild and phenolic tasting compound that can be found in alcoholic beverages.
This makes ethyl-4-hydroxybenzoate a potential biomarker for the consumption of this food product.
Ethyl-4-hydroxybenzoate is a potentially toxic compound.
Glutaric aciduria type I (GA I) is an autosomal-recessive deficiency of glutaryl-CoA-dehydrogenase and leads to encephalopathic crises resulting in neurological damage.
A screening parameter is glutarylcarnitine (C5DC) with carnitine ratios.
C5DC was shown to be significantly associated with renal manifestations.
Creatinine correlates significantly with C5DC and all C5DC/acylcarnitine ratios.
Direct or indirect contact with animal allergens frequently causes sensitisation.
Animal allergens are major components of farm, home and animal laboratory dust.
Asthma, occupational asthma, allergic rhinitis, and Swine Breeder's Lung, a form of exogenous allergic alveolitis, may occur in Swine/Pig breeders following exposure to Swine epithelium, Swine serum albumin and Swine urine proteins.
Reports in the literature have not differentiated which of the three is predominantly responsible for adverse symptoms, and as with other mammalian allergens, the assumption is reasonable that all three contribute.
One study reports on occupational asthma that was caused by allergy to Pigs' urine.
This testing provides genotypes for CYP3A4 and CYP3A5 and determines the estimated metabolic activity.
CYP3A4 and CYP3A5 cytochrome P450 enzymes are involved in the hepatic metabolism of up to 50% of all clinically used drugs.
There is wide variation in enzyme activity, particularly for CYP3A4 (10-100 fold), due to both genetic and non-genetic factors.
The cause of much of the variation is not yet understood.
The CYP3A4 and CYP3A5 enzymes have a high degree of similarity (85% amino acid sequence homology) and they metabolism largely the same set of drugs, Though many use the CYP3A4 pathway predominantly.
Genotype and metabolic activity for CYP3A4 and CYP3A5 should therefore be considered together when assessing possible effects on drug response.
*22 decreases enzyme activity, and is present in ~8% of Caucasians.
CYP3A5 *3 is a non-functional allele, so CYPA5 *3/*3 homozygotes are non-expressors of CYP3A5.
CYP3A5 *3 is the predominant CYP3A5 allele in Caucasians (prevalence of ~92%) and therefore most Caucasians have reduced or absent CYP3A5 metabolism.
CYP3A5 *6 and *7 lead to decreased enzyme activity.
CYP3A5 *6 and *7 are present in 11-12% of Asians and African Americans, but are essentially absent in Caucasians (frequency of 0.1%).
CYP3A4 *22 is typically associated with increased response to statins (lovastatin, simvastatin, and atorvastatin), with lower doses required to gain optimal response.
For CYP3A5, poor metabolizers are typically expected to require standard dosing of tacrolimus.
Intermediate or extensive metabolizers are expected to require a higher starting dose of tacrolimus.
Fentanyl is a key pain medication that is metabolized by CYP3A4/3A5.
The CYP3A5 *3 variant has decreased clearance of this active drug.
Patients with the CYP3A5 *3/*3 genotype have a higher risk of adverse events than patients with one or two *1 alleles.
However, CYP3A genotype and clinical variables (delivery rate, gender, co-medications, kidney disease, BMI and serum albumin) account for less than 50% of the wide variability in serum fentanyl concentration between patients with transdermal fentanyl treatment.
Lysosomal storage diseases (LSDs) are a group of approximately 40 rare inherited metabolic disorders that result from defects in lysosomal function.
Lysosomal storage diseases result when a specific organelle in the body's cells - the lysosome - malfunctions.
Tay-Sachs disease was the first of these disorders to be described, followed by Gaucher disease.
Lysosomal storage disorders are caused by lysosomal dysfunction usually as a consequence of deficiency of a single enzyme required for the metabolism of lipids, glycoproteins (sugar containing proteins) or so-called mucopolysaccharides.
Individually, LSDs occur with incidences of less than 1:100.000, however, as a group the incidence is about 1:5000 - 1:10.000.
Most of these disorders are autosomal recessively inherited, however a few are X-linked recessively inherited, such as Fabry disease and Hunter syndrome (MPS II).
Quinine is a natural white crystalline alkaloid having antipyretic, anti-malarial with analgesic and anti-inflammatory properties and a bitter taste.
It is a stereoisomer of quinidine.
Quinine was previously superseded by chloroquine, but is now again the drug of choice for treatment of falciparum malaria because of the rise of chloroquine resistance.
Quinine is available with a prescription in the U.S. Quinine is also used to treat nocturnal leg cramps and arthritis and it has also been used (with limited success) to treat people who had been infected by prions.
It was once a popular heroin adulterant.
Anaylsis of metabolic end products (acylcarnitines)
Von Willebrand disease (VWD) is caused by either a qualitative or quantitative deficit of the multimeric glycoprotein known as von Willebrand factor (VWF).
VWD affects 1-2% of the world population, making it the most common inherited bleeding disorder.
VWF plays a crucial role in primary hemostasis by triggering platelet adhesion to injured vessel walls and promoting platelet aggregation.
VWF also protects factor VIII from premature degradation in the peripheral circulation.
To diagnose VWD, there are several tests that must be run including Ristocetin cofactor activity, VWF antigen quantitative assay, Factor VIII activity, and collagen binding assay.
Additional tests are needed to determine the subtype of VWD.
The collagen binding assay measures the ability of VWF to bind to collagen by combining patient plasma with collagen that is adhered to a matrix.
Then anti-VWF and dye are added in order to measure how much patient VWF combined to the collagen.
When an antibody binds with an epitope on the VFW that is meant to bind to collagen, the ability of VWF to function is compromised.
The collagen binding assay evaluates the functionality of the VWF, and is reduced in the presence of inhibiting anti-VWF antibodies.
Patients who are most likely to develop anti-VWF include patients with complete or partial VWF gene deletions, patients who have received multiple transfusions, and patients with a family history of developing anti-VWF antibodies.
Leukocyte Phosphatase testing is used for the differential diagnosis of hairy cell leukemia.
Test is interpreted in conjunction with Wright's stain.
Acid phosphatase enzyme present in hairy cell is resistant to tartrate while the enzyme in other lymphoid cells are tartrate sensitive.
Useful in the differentiation of chronic myelogenous leukemia from leukemoid reactions as seen in severe infections, polycythemia vera and agnogenic myeloid metaplasia.
Hydroxylysine is an amino acid metabolite.
Increased levels seen with connective and bone tissue breakdown.
The naturally occurring form of DIHYDROXYPHENYLALANINE and the immediate precursor of DOPAMINE.
Unlike dopamine itself, it can be taken orally and crosses the blood-brain barrier.
It is rapidly taken up by dopaminergic neurons and converted to DOPAMINE.
It is used for the treatment of PARKINSONIAN DISORDERS and is usually given with agents that inhibit its conversion to dopamine outside of the central nervous system.
Hepatitis B virus basal core promoter (BCP) mutation can indicate a patient's risk of developing hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC).
Basal core promoter mutation was lamivudine-resistant mutantation of HBV.
The emergence of basal core promoter mutation may account for the escape of virus from host anti-HBe immune responses.
UL97 gene encodes a phosphotransferase that catalyzes the activation of gancyclovir by phosphorylation.
Resistance to gancyclovir is conferred by specific point mutations in the UL97 gene,
A pentose active in biological systems usually in its D-form.
Paragonimus is an important genus of flatworms, or platyhelminths, that includes Paragonimus westermani, an infectious lung fluke endemic to Asia.
Leukocytes with abundant granules in the cytoplasm.
They are divided into three groups according to the staining properties of the granules: neutrophilic, eosinophilic, and basophilic.
Mature granulocytes comprise the neutrophils, eosinophils and basophils.
Whether a patient has completed an advance healthcare directive.
Epithelial cells cover the inside and outside of almost all of the body's surfaces.
Squamous epithelial cells are flattened and barely visible by light microscopy.
They fit closely together in tissues; providing a smooth, low-friction surface over which fluids can move easily.
Squamous epithelia are found lining surfaces such as the alveolar epithelium in the lungs.
Specialized squamous epithelia also form the lining of cavities such as the blood vessels (endothelium) and pericardium (mesothelium) and the major cavities found within the body.
Major histocompatibility complex, class II, DQ alpha 1, also known as HLA-DQA1, is a human gene.
The protein encoded by this gene is one of two proteins that are required to form the DQ heterodimer, a cell surface receptor impportant for presenting antigens and triggering a humural immunity.
The gene is highly polymorphic (as are other HLA genes), and allele type can correlate with various diseases (such as celiac).
Antibodies formed in a transplant recipient to donor alleles can contribute to prediction of graft rejection.
A genus of yeast-like mitosporic Saccharomycetales fungi characterized by producing yeast cells, mycelia, pseudomycelia, and blastophores.
It is part of the normal flora of the skin, mouth, intestinal tract, and vagina, but can cause a variety of infections, including candidiasis, onychomycosis, vulvovaginal candidiasis and thrush.
(From Dorland, 28th ed)
B little g super little b antigens are members of the HLA Class I antigens and represent HLA-B17 (B57 or B58).
The B little g antigen group is designated as Bennett-Goodspeed antigens and are expressed on mature red blood cells (RBCs) and, like other HLA Class I antigens, are also expressed on platelets and the majority of nucleated cells.
In some patients, the Bg antigens are not expressed on the RBCs even though they are expressed on other cells.
Hemolytic transfusion reactions have rarely been attributed to Bg antibodies.
In addition, red cell survival has not been affected by Bg antibodies when patients receive HLA incompatible components.(AABB Technical Manual, 18th edition, pp 362, 480, 490)
The SDHD gene (succinate dehydrogenase complex, subunit D, integral membrane protein) is located on chromosome 11q23.
This gene encodes a member of complex II of the respiratory chain, which is responsible for the oxidation of succinate.
The encoded protein is one of two integral membrane proteins anchoring the complex to the matrix side of the mitochondrial inner membrane.
Mutations in this gene are associated with the formation of tumors, including hereditary paraganglioma.
Transmission of disease occurs almost exclusively through the paternal allele, suggesting that this locus may be maternally imprinted.
There are pseudogenes for this gene on chromosomes 1, 2, 3, 7, and 18.
Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants.
SRY (Sex-determining Region Y) is a sex-determining gene on the Y chromosome in the therians (placental mammals and marsupials).
This intronless gene encodes a transcription factor that is a member of the high mobility group (HMG)-box family of DNA-binding proteins.
This protein is the testis determining factor (TDF), also referred to as the SRY protein, which initiates male sex determination.
Mutations in this gene give rise to XY females with gonadal dysgenesis (Swyer syndrome); translocation of part of the Y chromosome containing this gene to the X chromosome causes XX male syndrome.
Antibodies to Coccidioides TP antigen usually appear during the first week of infection, and remain detectable for approximately 5 months.
Detection indicates recent, active infection.
Primidone (2-desoxyphenobarbitone, brand name Mysoline®) is an antiepileptic drug used to treat complex partial and generalized tonic-clonic seizures.
It is converted to phenylethylmalonamide (PEMA) and phenobarbitone.
Mycoplasma are small microorganisms that can be parasitic or saprophytic.
Several species are pathogenic in humans, including M. pneumoniae, which is an important cause of pneumonia and other respiratory disorders, and M. genitalium, which is involved in pelvic inflammatory diseases.
They are resistant to antibiotics that target cell wall synthesis, like penicillin.
Aneuploidy is an abnormal number of chromosomes, and is a type of chromosome abnormality.
An extra or missing chromosome is a common cause of genetic disorders (birth defects).
Some cancer cells also have abnormal numbers of chromosomes.
Aneuploidy occurs during cell division when the chromosomes don't separate properly between the two cells.
Chromosome abnormalities occur in 1 of 160 live births, the most common being extra chromosomes 21, 18 and 13.
Measured from the intersection of the posterior border on the tongue and the inferior border of the mandible to the closest point on the posterior pharyngeal wall
Landsteiner and Wiener used blood from a monkey (Macacus rhesus) to immunize rabbits and guinea pigs in order to define new antibody specificities.
One of the antibodies they produced appeared to have the same specificity as a human antibody found in several woman who had stillborn fetuses.
Consequently, the antibodies were named anti-Rh for rhesus.
However, as early as 1942 it was known that the rabbit/guinea pig and human antibodies could not be the same.
When the guinea pig antibody was used to test Rh+ and Rh negative cord blood cells (as defined by the human antibody) all samples were reactive.
The guinea pig antibody was given the name "D-like".
Then Race and Sanger found two women whose antibodies could be absorbed by Rh negative red cells and which appeared to be similar to the "D-like" antibody from animals.
Following further studies by Levine the "D-like" name was changed to LW in honor of Landsteiner and Wiener.
Phl p 5 is a major allergen from Timothy grass pollen and is one of the most reactive of the group 5 allergens, inducing allergic rhinitis and bronchial asthma in grass pollen-allergic patients.
Alpha (A) galactosidase is an enzyme used in sphingolipid metabolism.
The deficiency of the enzyme leads to accumulation of various products that may lead to Fabry's disease, which is lysosomal storage disorder.
Beta-hydroxybutyrate, acetoacetate, and acetone collectively are called ketone bodies.
The first two are synthesized from acetyl-CoA, in the mitochondria of liver cells; acetone is formed by spontaneous decarboxylation of acetoacetate.
Ketone body synthesis in liver is effectively irreversible because the enzyme that catalyzes the conversion of acetoacetate to acetoacetyl-CoA is not present in liver cells.
Ketone bodies, unlike fatty acids and triglycerides, are water-soluble.
They are exported from the liver, and are taken up by other tissues, notably brain and skeletal and cardiac muscle.
There, they are broken down to acetyl-CoA which is oxidized via the TCA cycle to yield energy.
In healthy individuals, this pathway of ketone body synthesis and utilization is most active during extended periods of fasting.
The tubular cells seen in casts are usually from the collecting tubes, but cells originating from the proximal tubules or any other sections (prior to the collecting tubes) of the nephron is possible.
With the PAP stain, Schumann subdivides renal tubular cell casts in RTC and necrotic RTC casts.
A few hyaline RTC casts or RTC casts can occasionally be found in a healthy person's urinary sediment.
In this context, these casts have no more clinical meanings than the hyaline casts.
The renal tubular cell casts are not associated with a precise pathology, but are found in multiple conditions that affect the renal tubules.
The RTC casts are non specific.
Pathologies associated with the presence of these casts include acute interstitial nephritis, acute transplant rejection, and tubular necrosis.
Necrotic RTC casts are seen in acute tubular necrosis and in nephrotoxic tubular diseases.
The typical renal tubular cell casts are described as hyaline matrix casts, showing two rows of well delimited tubular cells.
The two rows criteria is not reliable because the white blood cell casts can also appear with this particularity.
Sequestrated tubular cells in a hyaline matrix is possible, but recent studies indicate that the majority of casts of this type are composed of cells fixed to the surface of the casts.
Thyroid's secretory capacity, also referred to as thyroid output or thyroid capacity provides an estimate for the maximum secretion rate of the thyroid gland under stimulated conditions.
Thyroid secrectory capacity is elevated in hyperthyroidism and reduced in hypothyroidism.
Estimated maximum stimulated amount of thyroxine that the thyroid can produce in one second.
SPINA-GT is calculated with GT = BetaT * (DT +) *
(1 + K41 + K42) * / (AlphaT *) or GT = BetaT * (DT +) * / (AlphaT *) from serum or plasma concentrations of thyrotropin (TSH) and free (FT4) or total (TT4) thyroxine and some constants (AlphaT = Dilution factor for T4: 0.1 l-1; BetaT = Clearance exponent for T4: 1.1e-6 sec-1; K41 = Dissociation constant T4-TBG: 2e10 l/mol; K42 = Dissociation constant T4-TBPA: 2e8 l/mol, DT = EC50 for TSH: 2.75 mU/l)
Methionine is an essential nonpolar amino acid, and a lipotropic.
Methionine and cysteine are the only sulfur-containing proteinogenic amino acids.
The methionine derivative S-adenosyl methionine (SAM) serves as a methyl donor.
Methionine plays a role in cysteine, carnitine and taurine synthesis by the transsulfuration pathway, lecithin production, the synthesis of phosphatidylcholine and other phospholipids.
Improper conversion of methionine can lead to atherosclerosis.
Methionine, a chelating agent, is one of only two amino acids encoded by a single codon (AUG) in the standard genetic code (tryptophan, encoded by UGG, is the other).
The codon AUG is also significant, in that it carries the Start message for a ribosome to begin protein translation from mRNA.
As a consequence, methionine is incorporated into the N-terminal position of all proteins in eukaryotes and archaea during translation, although it is usually removed by post-translational modification.
Similar to thrombin time except that a snake venom instead of thrombin.
Currently (2010), four standardization protocols exist for measuring Hgb A1c: 1. IFCC - designated as a Reference Method or RM suggests the use of alternate measures, such as glycated albumen, for patients with severe iron deficiency, dialysis patients, and those with SS SC CC because of over or under reading that can occur with these interferences.
It also describes the effect of abnormal hemoglobins on results of HbA1c by instrument.
Studies have demonstrated racial and ethnic differences in the relationship between glucose levels and hemoglobin A1C, and it has been suggested that some descendants of sub-Saharan Africa may have higher levels of measured hemoglobin A1C compared to glucose levels due to hemoglobin variants .
A water-soluble, enzyme co-factor present in minute amounts in every living cell.
It occurs mainly bound to proteins or polypeptides and is abundant in liver, kidney, pancreas, yeast, and milk.
Lorazepam glucuronide is a major metabolite of lorazepam, a high-potency, intermediate-duration, 3-hydroxy benzodiazepine drug, often used to treat anxiety disorders.
Lorazepam is rapidly conjugated at its 3-hydroxy group into lorazepam glucuronide which is then excreted in the urine.
Lorazepam glucuronide has no demonstrable central nervous system (CNS) activity in animals.
On discontinuation, lorazepam serum levels become negligible after three days and undetectable after about a week.
Lorazepam-glucuronide is more water-soluble than its precursor, so gets more widely distributed in the body, leading to a longer half-life than lorazepam.
Lorazepam-glucuronide is eventually excreted by the kidneys and, because of its tissue accumulation, remains detectable, particularly in the urine, for substantially longer than lorazepam.
A nonapeptide messenger that is enzymatically produced from KALLIDIN in the blood where it is a potent but short-lived agent of arteriolar dilation and increased capillary permeability.
Bradykinin is also released from MAST CELLS during asthma attacks, from gut walls as a gastrointestinal vasodilator, from damaged tissues as a pain signal, and may be a neurotransmitter.
A 36-amino acid polypeptide secreted by the PANCREAS that has physiological regulatory functions.
Plasma pancreatic polypeptide increases after ingestion of food, with age, and in disease states.
A lack of pancreatic polypeptide in the ISLETS OF LANGERHANS has been associated with the OBESITY in rats and mice.
Mannose binding lectin (MBL), also named mannose- or mannan-binding protein (MBP), is an important factor in innate immunity.
It is produced in the liver as a response to infection, and is part of many other factors termed acute phase proteins.
The evidential basis on which the allelic phase and/or the allelic state was concluded.
Choices include: 1) Directly measured; 2) Family DNA; 3) Family history; 4) Inferred from population data
Glutaric acid (IUPAC systematic name:pentanedioic acid) is a simple five-carbon linear dicarboxylic acid.
Tyrophagus putrescentiae, a dominant species of Storage mite in Korea, is a particularly important cause of allergic disorders in this country.
The c.1436C>T sequence variant is common in Alaskan natives, and has been shown to affect fasting tolerance.
Chlorpyrifos is an amber to white crystalline broad spectrum organophosphate and cholinesterase inhibitor.
It was originally developed to kill the larval stage of mosquitoes, but is now used to treat cutworms, corn rootworms, cockroaches, grubs, flea beetles, flies, termites, fire ants, and lice found on crops such as cotton, fruit, nuts, vegetables, as well as lawns and ornamental plants.
Chlorpyrifos can also be applied directly on sheep, turkeys, in dog kennels, domestic dwellings, farm buildings, and storage bins.
It is moderately poisonous to humans causing skin and eye irritation.
If chlorpyrifos is absorbed through the skin, inhaled, or ingested, systemic intoxication from the inhibition of cholinesterase activity has been known to occur.
The Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) has determined that chlorpyrifos does not affect human reproduction, is not teratogenic, is not mutagenic, and is not carcinogenic.
Chlorpyrifos is toxic to birds, freshwater fish, aquatic invertebrates, and estuarine and marine organisms.
Chlorpyrifos can be extremely toxic to wildlife and honeybees.
Species of American house dust mite, in the family pyroglyphidae
The IDH1 (isocitrate dehydrogenase 1, cytosolic) gene is located on chromosome 2 at 2q34.
The IDH1 gene encodes the isocitrate dehydrogenase 1 enzyme, which is primarily found in cytoplasm of cells as well as in peroxisomes.
Mutations in the IDH1 gene are associated with various conditions, including Maffucci syndrome, Ollier disease, cholangiocarcinoma, acute myeloid leukemia, myelofibrosis, gliomas, and chondrosarcomas.
The mutations associated with Maffucci syndrome, Ollier disease, and other cancer-related conditions are somatic gain-of-function mutations in which the enzyme takes on a new, abnormal function.
A species of AVIPOXVIRUS, subfamily CHORDOPOXVIRINAE.
Canarypox virus vectors are used in vaccine and immunotherapy research.
A potent natriuretic and vasodilatory peptide or mixture of different-sized low molecular weight PEPTIDES derived from a common precursor and secreted mainly by the HEART ATRIUM.
All these peptides share a sequence of about 20 AMINO ACIDS.
3-Aminoisobutyric acid is a product formed by the catabolism of thymine.
Threitol is a four-carbon sugar alcohol with the molecular formula C4H10O4.
It is primarily used as an intermediate in the chemical synthesis of other compounds.
LDH exists in five molecular forms(isoenzymes).
LDH isoenzymes may be followed to evaluate chest pain.
LDH fractions 4 and 5 are associated with hepatic and skeletal muscle origin.
LD4 is normally less than LD5.
Information from Jacobs and DeMott Laboratory Test Handbook, 5th edition, DS Jacobs, WR DeMott and DK Oxley, 2001.
The AHCY gene (adenosylhomocysteinase) is located on chromosome 20q11.22.
S-adenosylhomocysteine hydrolase belongs to the adenosylhomocysteinase family.
It catalyzes the reversible hydrolysis of S-adenosylhomocysteine (AdoHcy) to adenosine (Ado) and L-homocysteine (Hcy).
Thus, it regulates the intracellular S-adenosylhomocysteine (SAH) concentration thought to be important for transmethylation reactions.
Deficiency in this protein is one of the different causes of hypermethioninemia.
Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
The Douglas fir is a tall evergreen timber tree, with short needles and egg-shaped cones similar to those of a Fir tree, but it is not a true Fir.
Douglas fir attains a height of 30 to 90 m.
The trees have irregularly whorled branches.
The foliage is feathery-soft and not sharp.
color varies from silver to heavy bluish-green.
Branchlets are nearly smooth, but not as smooth as the branches of Firs.
Anecdotal evidence suggests that asthma, allergic rhinitis and allergic conjunctivitis, similar to reactions caused by other members of this family, are possible following exposure to pollen from this tree; however, few specific studies have been reported to date.
Shiga toxins are a family of related toxins with two major groups, Stx1 and Stx2, expressed by genes considered to be part of the genome of lambdoid prophages.
True Shiga toxin (Stx) is produced by Shigella dysenteriae.
(Shiga-like toxins 1 and 2 (SLT-1 and 2 or Stx-1 and 2) are the Shiga toxins produced by some E. coli strains.)
β-Glucans (or beta-glucans) are polysaccharides occurring in the bran of cereal grains, the cell wall of baker's yeast, certain types of fungi, and many kinds of mushrooms.
The cereal based beta-glucans occur most abundantly in barley and oats and to a much lesser degree in rye and wheat.
They are useful in human nutrition as texturing agents and as soluble fiber supplements, but problematic in the process of brewing.
An insoluble (1,3/1,6) beta glucan derived from baker's yeast has a different molecular structure than that of its soluble (1,3/1,4) counterparts and has a greater biological activity due to its structural "branching".
Yeast derived beta glucans are notable for their immunomodulatory function.
The differences between soluble and insoluble beta glucans are significant in regards to application, mode of action, and overall biological activity.
The measurement of alpha hydroxybutyrate dehydrogenase activity has been used as cardiac specific marker in various ways over time (including perioperatively) to detect myocardial infarction, either alone or in combination with CK-MB.
Lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) in serum has 5 isoenzymes, those with faster electrophoretic mobility having a higher proportion of the H-subunit prevalent in cardiac tissue.
The faster cardiac LDH isoforms (e.g. LDH1) also have a greater catalytic activity to reduce alpha ketobutyrate known as "alpha hydroxybutyrate dehydrogenase activity".
The units conversion factor is: U/L x 0.0167 = μkat/L
The C9orf72 gene (chromosome 9 open reading frame 72) is located on chromosome 9p21.2.
The protein encoded by this gene plays an important role in the regulation of endosomal trafficking, and has been shown to interact with Rab proteins that are involved in autophagy and endocytic transport.
Expansion of a hexanucleotide repeat in non-coding sequence between alternate 5' exons in transcripts from this gene is associated with 9p-linked ALS (amyotrophic lateral sclerosis) and FTD (frontotemporal dementia).
Studies suggest that hexanucleotide expansions could result in the selective stabilization of repeat-containing pre-mRNA, and the accumulation of insoluble dipeptide repeat protein aggregates that could be pathogenic in FTD-ALS patients.
Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms.
Phytanic acid (or 3,7,11,15-tetramethyl hexadecanoic acid) is present in human diet or in animal tissues where it may be derived from chlorophyll in plant extracts.
Phytanic acid derives from the corresponding alcohol, phytol, and is oxidized into pristanic acid.
It can also characterize a precise human pathology, Refsum's syndrome.
This inherited neurological disorder is characterized by an accumulation of a normal metabolite of phytol (phytanic acid) in blood and tissues, and the disorder was later found to be related to deficiency in the oxidation pathway in the liver.
Freshwater sponges contain terpenoid acids such as 4,8,12-trimethyltridecanoic, phytanic and pristanic acids, which indicates that these acids may have chemotaxonomical significance for both marine and freshwater sponges.
Phytanic acid accumaltes in the fat of ruminant animals.
Most animals lack the necessary enzyme to cleave phytol from chlorophyll.
Human rhinoviruses (HRVs) can be categorized into three genetically distinct HRV groups, designated groups A, B, and C, within the genus Enterovirus and the family Picornaviridae.
HRVs are positive-sense, single-stranded-RNA (ssRNA) viruses of approximately 7,200 bp. HRVs, which are the cause of more than one-half of cold like illnesses, are commonly associated with upper respiratory tract infection, otitis media, and sinusitis.
PCR testing for respiratory virus detection has led to the recognition of HRV as a lower respiratory tract pathogen as well, especially in patients with asthma, infants, elderly patients, and immunocompromised individuals.
At this time there are no approved antiviral therapies, and treatment is primarily supportive.
The Mongolian Gerbil is the species commonly kept as a pet in homes and classrooms, but there are around 90 species of Gerbils and Jirds (Gerbils' relatives in the genus Meriones).
Direct or indirect contact with animal allergens frequently causes sensitisation.
Animal allergens are major components in house and animal laboratory dust.
The Rosner Index subtracts the clotting time of the pooled normal plasma from the clotting time of patient 1:1 mix.
This result is then divided by the clotting time of the patient plasma.
A higher index value indicates that the addition of normal plasma has not succeeded in correcting the abnormally elevated aPTT, therefore representing the possibility of an inhibitor.
A low index value indicates correction (and therefore points to a factor deficiency).
Generally values >15% are indicative of an inhibitor.
Ornithine is an amino acid that, under the action of the enzyme arginase on L-arginine, yields urea.
Therefore, ornithine is a central part of the urea cycle, which eliminates excess nitrogen.
Ornithine is not an amino acid coded by DNA, and in that sense, it is not involved in protein synthesis.
In mammalian non-hepatic tissues, however, the urea cycle is mainly involved in arginine biosynthesis, making ornithine an important metabolic process.
It is not directly a product of the the genetic code because polypeptides containing unprotected ornithines undergo spontaneous lactamization.
This proved to be a problem when ornithine was originally classified among the other 20 naturally occuring amino acids.
Alpha globulins are a group of plasma proteins, belonging to the serpin superfamily, that are highly mobile in alkaline or electrically charged solutions.
They inhibit certain blood proteases; examples include Alpha 1 antitrypsin, alpha 1 antichymotrypsin, and serum amyloid A.
Bacterial resistance to macrolide drugs has increased in conjunction with their heavy use in both medicine and animal husbandry.
While there are a number of mechanisms bacteria use to resist the efficacy of drug treatment, the one used by macrolides is to bind to the large 50S subunit of the bacterial ribosome and interfere with protein synthesis.
Changes of specific nucleotides in the 23S rRNA inside the large ribosomal unit are the root cause of many instances of bacterial resistance to macrolides.
Minocycline is an antibiotic that was discovered in the 1940s and continues to be widely prescribed.
It belongs to the tetracycline class of drugs and is used to treat both Gram-positive and Gram-negative bacterial infections.
Minocycline has a high incidence of adverse events associated with its use causing symptoms including nausea, vomiting, and drug-hypersensitivity syndrome.
Allergic reactions to minocycline have involved symptoms of urticaria, angioedema, dyspnea, and hypotension.
Found on early B- and T-cells and mature granulocytes Associated with Precursor B-cell ALL; Follicular lymphoma; Small noncleaved lymphoma; Immature T-cell neoplasms
Principal metabolite of brain norepinephrine
Alpha-linolenic acid (ALA) is an essential omega-3 fatty acid.
It is called "essential" because it is needed for normal human growth and development.
Nuts, such as walnuts, are good sources of alpha-linolenic acid.
It is also found in vegetable oils such as flaxseed oil, canola oil, and soybean oil, as well as in red meat and dairy products.
Epidemiological studies and dietary trials in humans suggest that alpha-linolenic acid is a major cardio-protective nutrient.
A narcotic analgesic that may be habit-forming.
It is nearly as effective orally as by injection.
Glycated hemoglobin (hemoglobin A1c, HbA1c, A1C, or Hb1c; sometimes also HbA1c) is a form of hemoglobin that is measured primarily to identify the average plasma glucose concentration over prolonged periods of time.
It is formed in a non-enzymatic glycation pathway by hemoglobin's exposure to plasma glucose.
Normal levels of glucose produce a normal amount of glycated hemoglobin.
As the average amount of plasma glucose increases, the fraction of glycated hemoglobin increases in a predictable way.
This serves as a marker for average blood glucose levels over the previous months prior to the measurement.
The 2010 American Diabetes Association Standards of Medical Care in Diabetes added the A1c ≥ 48 mmol/mol (≥6.5%) as another criterion for the diagnosis of diabetes.
In diabetes mellitus, higher amounts of glycated hemoglobin, indicating poorer control of blood glucose levels, have been associated with cardiovascular disease, nephropathy, and retinopathy.
Monitoring the HbA1c in type-1 diabetic patients may improve treatment.
A naturally occurring furocoumarin compound found in several species of plants, including Psoralea corylifolia.
It is a photoactive substance that forms DNA ADDUCTS in the presence of ultraviolet A irradiation.
Retinal, also called retinaldehyde or vitamin A aldehyde, is one of the many forms of vitamin A. Retinal is a polyene chromophore, and bound to proteins called opsins, is the chemical basis of animal vision.
Bound to proteins called type 1 rhodopsins, retinal allows certain microorganisms to convert light into metabolic energy.
Vertebrate animals ingest retinal directly from meat, or produce retinal from one of four carotenoids (beta-carotene, alpha-carotene, gamma-carotene, and beta-cryptoxanthin), which they must obtain from plants or other photosynthetic organisms (no other carotenoids can be converted by animals to retinal, and some carnivores cannot convert any carotenoids at all).
The other main forms of vitamin A, retinol, and a partially active form retinoic acid, may both be produced from retinal.
Invertebrates such as insects and squid use hydroxylated forms of retinal in their visual systems, which derive from conversion from other xanthophylls.
The clot formation lag time is the time from the beginning of the measurement until the beginning of clot growth.
When calculated using time-lapse microscopy (i.e., thrombodynamics or spatiotemporal clot analysis), the lag time is measured from when the activator first contacts the plasma sample until the beginning of the clot growth, which is defined as the point when the light scatter from the growing fibrin clot reaches half of the maximum light scatter from the formed clot at the end of the measurement.
Tipranavir, or tipranavir disodium, is a nonpeptidic protease inhibitor (PI) manufactured by Boehringer-Ingelheim under the trade name Aptivus.
It is administered with ritonavir in combination therapy to treat HIV infection.
AMP deaminase 1 is an enzyme that in humans is encoded by the AMPD1 gene.
Myoadenylate deaminase, also called AMP deaminase, is an enzyme that converts adenosine monophosphate (AMP) to inosine monophosphate (IMP), freeing an ammonia molecule in the process.
Adenosine monophosphate deaminase 1 catalyzes the deamination of AMP to IMP in skeletal muscle and plays an important role in the purine nucleotide cycle.
Two other genes have been identified, AMPD2 and AMPD3, for the liver- and erythrocyte-specific isoforms, respectively.
Deficiency of the muscle-specific enzyme is apparently a common cause of exercise-induced myopathy and probably the most common cause of metabolic myopathy in the human.
A lymphocyte is a type of white blood cell in the vertebrate immune system.
A lymphocyte count is usually part of a peripheral complete blood cell count and is expressed as percentage of lymphocytes to total white blood cells counted.
A general increase in the number of lymphocytes is known as lymphocytosis whereas a decrease is lymphocytopenia.
An increase in lymphocyte concentration is usually a sign of a viral infection (in some rare case, leukemias are found through an abnormally raised lymphocyte count in an otherwise normal person).
A low normal to low absolute lymphocyte concentration is associated with increased rates of infection after surgery or trauma.
3-Hydroxylinoleoylcarnitine is a secondary marker for Long-chain L-3-Hydroxy dehydrogenase deficiency, and Trifunctional protein deficiency.
A herb, which may result in allergy symptoms in sensitised individuals.
The sub-bushy plant Marjoram originated in the southern Mediterranean region and spread to southern Europe very early
Na nitrite is used in meat curing, coloring and preserving; in dyeing and bleaching fabrics; in photography
The ELN gene (elastin) is located on chromosome 7q11.23.
This gene encodes a protein that is one of the two components of elastic fibers.
The encoded protein is rich in hydrophobic amino acids such as glycine and proline, which form mobile hydrophobic regions bounded by crosslinks between lysine residues.
Deletions and mutations in this gene are associated with supravalvular aortic stenosis (SVAS) and autosomal dominant cutis laxa.
Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
The location where a patient's lab test was performed, e.g., the laboratory or a point of care (POC) setting, such as the intensive care unit.
Uncorrected visual acuity is a measurement of clearness of vision while the patient is not using refractive correction.
Best corrected visual acuity is acuity measurement using corrective lenses, if usually worn.
Visual acuity measured using a Snellen Eye Chart is reported with a numerator of the standard testing distance of 20 and a denominator indicating the distance at which strokes of the smallest letter size viewable subtend at 1 minute of arc.
(e.g., 20/10: with a standard testing distance of 20 feet, the strokes of the smallest letter size viewable would subtend 1 minute of arc at 10 feet, or as more commonly explained, what the patient can see at 20 feet, the average population can see at 10 feet).
If unable to read letters on a testing chart, visual acuity is described as ranging from ability to count fingers, recognize hand motion, perceive bright light, or unable to perceive light.
The distance from Subnasale to Soft tissue Menton
The OTOF gene (otoferlin) is located on chromosome 2p23.1.
Mutations in this gene are a cause of neurosensory nonsyndromic recessive deafness, DFNB9.
The short form of the encoded protein has 3 C2 domains, a single carboxy-terminal transmembrane domain found also in the C. elegans spermatogenesis factor FER-1 and human dysferlin, while the long form has 6 C2 domains.
The homology suggests that this protein may be involved in vesicle membrane fusion.
Several transcript variants encoding multiple isoforms have been found for this gene.
2-hydroxysebacate is elevated in children affected with peroxisomal disorders, such as neonatal adrenoleukodystrophy and Zellweger syndrome, and is a useful marker for these conditions.
Neisseria meningitidis is a species of gram-negative, aerobic bacteria.
It is a commensal and pathogen only of humans, and can be carried asymptomatically in the nasopharynx.
When found in cerebrospinal fluid it is the causative agent of cerebrospinal meningitis (meningitis, meningococcal).
It can also be found in venereal discharges and blood.
At least 13 serogroups have been described based on antigenic differences in the capsular polysaccharides; the ones causing most meningitis infections being A, B, C, Y, and W-135.
Outbreaks caused by serogroup X meningococci have also been reported.
Each serogroup can be further classified by serotype, serosubtype, and immunotype.
The name sardine or pilchard is given to herring-like fishes belonging to the genera Sardina, Sardinella and Sardinops.
Canned sardines may, in fact, be herrings.
Specific IgE antibodies to sardine have been measured in a group of atopic dermatitis patients.
A correlation study indicates the presence of unique allergens as well as allergens shared with the closely related herring, f205.
IgE antibodies have also been measured in food-allergic children.
Döhle bodies are light blue-gray, oval, basophilic, leukocyte inclusions located in the peripDöhle bodies are light blue-gray, oval, basophilic, leukocyte inclusions located in the peripheral cytoplasm of neutrophils measuring 1-3 µm in diameter.
Not much is known about their formation, but döhle bodies are thought to be remnants of the rough endoplasmic reticulum.
They are often present in conjunction with toxic granulation.
The Bacillus subtilis group consists of gram positive, spore-forming, aerobic, rod-shaped bacteria that are commonly found in the soil and comprises a number of species including B. subtilis subsp.
subtilis, B. licheniformis, B. amyloliquefaciens, B. atrophaeus, B. mojavensis, B. vallismortis, B. subtilis subsp.
spizizenii and B. sonorensis.
While members of the B. subtilis group are commonly thought of as a culture contaminant, they have been implicated in bacteremia, endocarditis and other infections, especially in immunocompromised patients .
Streptococcus pneumoniae are gram-positive cocci that are nonmotile and nonsporulating and usually require complex culture media.
Older streptococcal cultures, beyond the most active growth period (the logarithmic phase), sometimes lose their gram-positive staining characteristics.
S. pneumoniae are part of the normal respiratory tract flora.
Disease usually results due to the acquisition of a new strain following a change in the normal flora, often due to a preceding virus.
S. pneumonaie causes otitis media, sinusitis and pneumonia in the middle ear, sinuses or lungs, respectively.
Meningitis can occur by bloodstream invasion from the lungs or by extension of otitis media or sinusitis to the meninges.
Bacteremia can result in osteomyelitis (infection of bones) or arthritis (of joints).
Most bacterial pneumonia occurring after the neonatal period is caused by S. pneumoniae.
Pneumococcal pneumonia is seen most commonly in elderly or immunosuppressed individuals.
In the United States, it is most prevalent in winter.
Diagnosis is usually based on a sputum Gram stain and culture although blood or cerebrospinal fluid may be cultured.
While penicillin has been the standard treatment, some strains have proven resistant to penicillin and multiple antibiotics.
The GNA11 (G protein subunit alpha 11) gene is located on chromosome 19 at 19p13.3.
The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the family of guanine nucleotide-binding proteins (G proteins), which function as modulators or transducers in various transmembrane signaling systems.
G proteins are composed of 3 units: alpha, beta and gamma.
This gene encodes one of the alpha subunits (subunit alpha-11).
Mutations in this gene have been associated with hypocalciuric hypercalcemia type II (HHC2) and hypocalcemia dominant 2 (HYPOC2).
Patients with HHC2 and HYPOC2 exhibit decreased or increased sensitivity, respectively, to changes in extracellular calcium concentrations.
Troponin I is a part of the troponin complex.
It binds to actin in thin myofilaments to hold the actin-tropomyosin complex in place.
Because of it myosin cannot bind actin in relaxed muscle.
When calcium binds to the Troponin C it causes conformational changes which lead to dislocation of troponin I and finally tropomyosin leaves the binding site for myosin on actin leading to contraction of muscle.
The letter I is given due to its inhibitory character.
The industry a person has worked in for the longest time while in the usual occupation.
Chondroitin sulfate is a sulfated glycosaminoglycan (GAG) composed of a chain of alternating sugars (N-acetylgalactosamine and glucuronic acid).
It is usually found attached to proteins as part of a proteoglycan.
A chondroitin chain can have over 100 individual sugars, each of which can be sulfated in variable positions and quantities.
Chondroitin sulfate is an important structural component of cartilage and provides much of its resistance to compression.
Along with glucosamine, chondroitin sulfate has become a widely used dietary supplement for treatment of osteoarthritis.
Phenylalanine is an essential alpha-amino acid.
It exists in two forms, a D and an L form, which are enantiomers (mirror-image molecules) of each other.
It has a benzyl side chain and its name comes from its chemical structures that consists of a phenyl group substituted for one of the hydrogens in the side chain of alanine.
Because of its phenyl group, phenylalanine is an aromatic compound that at room temperature exists as a white, powdery solid.
L -phenylalanine (LPA) is an electrically-neutral amino acid and its enantiomer, D -phenylalanine (DPA), can be synthesized artificially.
L -phenylalanine can also be converted into L -tyrosine, another one of the twenty protein-forming amino acids.
Dihydrocodeine, also called DHC, Drocode or DF-118, is a synthetic opioid analgesic prescribed for postoperative pain, severe dyspnea, or as an antitussive.
It was developed in the early 1900s, and is similar in chemical structure, pharmacological activity, and potency as codeine.
Although dihydrocodeine does have extremely active metabolites, in the form of dihydromorphine and dihydromorphine-6-glucuronide (100x more potent), these metabolites are produced in such small amount that they do not have clinically important effects.
Studies in Brazil have shown that SPM is the prevalent Metallo beta-lactamase (MBL) in that country.
SPM carbapenemase is the main mechanism of resistance to ceftazidime on ceftazidime-resistant P. aeruginosa found in blood isolates.
Despite being restricted to hospitals for several years, due to human travel, the SPM gene is now being seen globally.
Androstenediol (5-androstene-3β,17β-diol, AED) and androstenetriol (5-androstene-3β,7β,17β-triol, AET) are downstream metabolites of dehydroepiandrostrone (5-androstene-3β-ol-17-one, DHEA).
As steroid hormones, they upregulate immune response and prevent morbidity and mortality from various infections from bacterial and viral agents.
AED and AET are also thought to counteract stress-mediated immune suppression.
Androstenetriol is found in urine in healthy subjects during growth and is one of the markers that reflects the changes of the adrenarche process in boys and girls (Adrenarche is the adrenal glands maturaty).
Pipecolic acid (piperidine-2-carboxylic acid) is a small organic molecule which accumulates in pipecolic acidemia.
It is the carboxylic acid of piperidine.
It can be associated with some forms of epilepsy.
Feline calicivirus (FCV) is a virus of the family Caliciviridae that causes disease in cats.
It is one of the two important viral causes of respiratory infection in cats, the other being feline herpesvirus.
FCV can be isolated from about 50 percent of cats with upper respiratory infection.
Cheetahs are the other species of the family Felidae known to become infected naturally
2-hydroxy-3-methylvaleric acid (HMVA) is an acid generated by L-isoleucine oxidation pathway and involves four stereoisomers (2S,3S-HMVA, 2R,3R-HMVA, 2S,3R-HMVA and 2R,3S-HMVA).
Increased levels of HMVA are found in patients with maple syrup urine disease (MSUD), an inherited metabolic disease characterized by sweet-smelling urine, ketoacidosis, seizures, and neurological dysfunction.
Normeperidine is a major metabolite of meperidine and very weak analgesic.
It is half as potent as meperidine as an analgesic but 2-3 times more potent as a convulsant.
The half-life of normeperidine is increased in patient's with renal failure.
Symptoms of normeperidine accumulation progress from irritability to tremors and generalized seizures.
Such patients are known to have high plasma concentrations of normeperidine.
When naloxone is administered for normeperidine-induced seizures, an exacerbation of the seizures occurs due to antagonism of the seizure-suppressing effects of meperidine.
The NPHS2 gene (nephrosis 2, idiopathic, steroid-resistant (podocin)) is located on chromosome 1q25.2.
This gene encodes a protein that plays a role in the regulation of glomerular permeability.
Mutations in this gene cause steroid-resistant nephrotic syndrome.
Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants.
Citrulline is a primary marker for Citrullinemia type I, Argininosuccinic aciduria, Citrullinemia type II and Pyruvate carboxylase deficiency.
Secondary marker for Carbamoyltransferase deficiency, Ornithine transcarbamylase deficiency and Pyruvate carboxylase deficiency.
Elevated sialic acid is a marker for a group of disorders known as sialic acid storage diseases, which are caused by a defect in the sialic acid transporter at the lysosomal membrane.
The infantile form is characterized by hypotonia, cerebellar ataxia, and severe cognitive delay.
The adult form is called Salla disease and is associated with slowly progressive neurodegeneration.
Both forms are caused by mutations in the SLC17A5 gene, located on chromosome 6q13, which encodes a protein with two functions, one of which is as a lysosomal sialic acid transporter.
Glyceraldehyde 3-phosphate dehydrogenase (abbreviated as GAPDH or less commonly as G3PDH) is an enzyme that catalyzes the sixth step of glycolysis and thus serves to break down glucose for energy and carbon molecules.
In addition to this long established metabolic function, GAPDH has recently been implicated in several non-metabolic processes, including transcription activation, initiation of apoptosis, and ER to Golgi vesicle shuttling.
JWH-398 is considered a synthetic cannabinoid and a scheduled I controlled substance.
JWH stands for John W. Huffman, one of the inventors of the compound.
A 80-kDa subcomponent of complement C1, existing as a SERINE PROTEASE proenzyme in the intact complement C1 complex.
When COMPLEMENT C1Q is bound to antibodies, the changed tertiary structure causes autolytic activation of complement C1r which is cleaved into two chains, A (heavy) and B (light, the serine protease), connected by disulfide bonds.
The activated C1r serine protease, in turn, activates COMPLEMENT C1S proenzyme by cleaving the Arg426-Ile427 bond.
No fragment is released when either C1r or C1s is cleaved.
The BCKDHB gene (branched chain keto acid dehydrogenase E1, beta polypeptide) is located on chromosome 6q14.1.
This gene encodes the E1 beta subunit of branched-chain keto acid dehydrogenase, which is a multienzyme complex associated with the inner membrane of mitochondria.
This enzyme complex functions in the catabolism of branched-chain amino acids.
Mutations in this gene have been associated with maple syrup urine disease (MSUD), type 1B, a disease characterized by a maple syrup odor to the urine in addition to mental and physical retardation and feeding problems.
Alternative splicing at this locus results in multiple transcript variants.
Growth and differentiation factor 15 (GDF-15) is a cytokine that plays an important role in regulating cellular responses to stress.
GDF-15 has been associated with suppressing inflammation in various conditions such as cardiac ischemia and early pregnancy.
It has also been identified as a biomarker for mitochondrial disorders and has been found to be more specific for disorders due to defects in mitochondrial translation and DNA maintenance.
Higher levels of GDF-15 are associated with disorders that affect multiple organ systems.
A chlorinated organic herbicide.
Includes PMP22 duplication and deletion testing and sequence analysis of PMP22, Connexin32, MPZ, EGR2, GDAP1, PRX, and LITAF/SIMPLE
Clorazepate (marketed under the brand names Tranxene® and Tranxilium®) is a drug which is a benzodiazepine derivative.
It possesses anxiolytic, anticonvulsant, sedative and skeletal muscle relaxant properties.
Clorazepate has been discontinued since February 2006 in the UK.
Indications:Clorazepate is used in the treatment of anxiety disorders and insomnia.
It may also be prescribed as an anticonvulsant or muscle relaxant.
Clorazepate is principally prescribed in the treatment of alcohol withdrawal and epilepsy, although it is also a useful anxiolytic because of its long half-life.
The normal starting dosage range of clorazepate is 15-60 mg 2-4 x per day.
Dosages as high as 90-120 mg per day may be used in the treatment of acute alcohol withdrawal.
Clorazepate is available in 3.75, 7.5, and 15 mg capsules or tablets.
Clorazepate SD (controlled release) is available in 11.25 and 22.5 mg tablets.
Poisoning from the Amanita group of mushrooms comprises approximately 3% of all poisonings in the U.S.
These mushrooms contain primarily two types of toxins, amatoxins and phallotoxins.
Phallotoxins have a more limited toxicity potential and they primarily consist of phalloidin (PHN) and phallacidin (PCN).
Amatoxins, on the other hand, are very toxic and they primarily consist of alpha-amanitin (AA), beta-amanitin (BA) and gamma-amanitin (GA).
Toxin levels can vary among various species, even among varieties of the same species of Amanita mushroom family.
Eravacycline is a synthetic tetracycline antibiotic that is structurally similar to tigecycline and inhibits bacterial protein synthesis by binding to the 30S ribosomal subunit.
It is a broad-spectrum antibiotic that can be administered both orally and intravenously.
It is effective against gram-positive, gram-negative and anaerobic bacteria, except for Pseudomonas aeruginosa.
As of early 2017, eravacycline is being studied in phase 3 clinical trials.
Leucine-rich glioma-inactivated protein 1 (LGI1) is part of a group of antigens that have target antibodies that bind to neuronal cell surface or synaptic proteins but are not associated with a malignancy.
The ensuing encephalitis has been designated neuronal surface antibody syndrome or autoimmune synaptic encephalitis.
LGI1 antibodies have been associated with encephalitis that responds well to treatment and has a good expected outcome.
Palmitoleic acid, or (Z)-9-hexadecenoic acid, is an omega-7 monounsaturated fatty acid with the formula CH3(CH2)5CH=CH(CH2)7COOH that is a common constituent of the glycerides of human adipose tissue.
It is present in all tissues, but generally found in higher concentrations in the liver.
It is biosynthesized from palmitic acid by the action of the enzyme delta-9 desaturase.
The giant grouper (Epinephelus lanceolatus), also known as the brindle bass, brown spotted cod, bumblebee grouper and as the Queensland grouper in Australia, is the largest bony fish found in coral reefs
In enzymology, a pyruvate oxidase is an enzyme.
The 3 substrates of this enzyme are pyruvate, phosphate, and O2, whereas its 3 products are acetyl phosphate, CO2, and H2O2.
This enzyme belongs to the family of oxidoreductases, specifically those acting on the aldehyde or oxo group of donor with oxygen as acceptor.
The systematic name of this enzyme class is pyruvate:oxygen 2-oxidoreductase (phosphorylating).
Other names in common use include pyruvic oxidase, and phosphate-dependent pyruvate oxidase.
This enzyme participates in pyruvate metabolism.
It has 2 cofactors: FAD, and Thiamin diphosphate.
The IFITM5 gene (interferon induced transmembrane protein 5) is located on chromosome 11p15.5.
This gene encodes a membrane protein thought to play a role in bone mineralization.
This gene is located on chromosome 11 in a cluster of related genes which are induced by interferon, however, this gene has not been shown to be interferon inducible.
A similar gene, located in a gene cluster on mouse chromosome 7, is a member of the interferon-inducible fragilis gene family.
The mouse gene encodes a transmembrane protein described as participating in germ cell competence.
A mutation in the 5' UTR of this gene has been associated with osteogenesis imperfecta type V (, 22863195).
Norclomipramine is a main metabolite of clomipramine.
The CNS active salt of Desoxyn is dextromethamphetamine.
This is the right-hand isomer of methamphetamine bonded to a hydrochloride (HCl) base.
N-acetylaspartylglutamate (NAAG) is the 3rd most prevalent neurotransmitter in mammals that has multiple mechanisms of action, including acting as an N-methyl-D-aspartate-sensitive glutamate receptor antagonist and a presynaptic inhibitor of another type of glutamate receptor in the metabotropic receptor category.
While the exact role of NAAG in clinical disease is not known, it is thought to be involved in multiple disease processes, including schizophrenia and Canavan disease.
Under the INN spaglumic acid, NAAG is used as an antiallergic medication in eye drops and nasal preparations.
Cystine is an oxidized dimeric form of cysteine.
It is formed by linking two cysteine residues via a disulfide bond (cys-S-S-cys) between the -SH groups.
Cystine was discovered in 1810 but was not recognized as a component of proteins until it was isolated from the horn of a cow in 1899.1 Cystine is found in high concentrations in the cells of the immune system, skeletal and connective tissues, skin, digestive enzymes, and in hair.
Hair and skin are 10-14% cystine.
Occlusion pressure is the negative pressure in the airway that is generated when the airway is briefly occluded during inspiration.
Grazoprevir (previously MK-5172) is a second generation hepatitis C virus (HCV) NS3/4A protease inhibitor, used in combination with the NS5A replication complex inhibitor elbasvir, either with or without ribavirin, for patients with HCV genotype 1 infection with baseline characteristics of poor response.
The ACADSB gene (acyl-CoA dehydrogenase, short/branched chain) is located on chromosome 10q26.13.
Short/branched chain acyl-CoA dehydrogenase(ACADSB) is a member of the acyl-CoA dehydrogenase family of enzymes that catalyze the dehydrogenation of acyl-CoA derivatives in the metabolism of fatty acids or branch chained amino acids.
Substrate specificity is the primary characteristic used to define members of this gene family.
The ACADSB gene product has the greatest activity towards the short branched chain acyl-CoA derivative, (S)-2-methylbutyryl-CoA, but also reacts significantly with other 2-methyl branched chain substrates and with short straight chain acyl-CoAs.
The cDNA encodes for a mitochondrial precursor protein which is cleaved upon mitochondrial import and predicted to yield a mature peptide of approximately 43.7-KDa.
5b-Cholestane-3a,7a,12a,23-Tetrol is a bile present in the urine samples of patients with cerebrotendinous xanthomatosis (CTX).
The presence of an additional TA repeat in the TATA region of the UGT1A1 promoter (ie, 7 TA repeats; UGT1A1*28, rs8175347) markedly reduces the level of hepatic bilirubin UDP-glucuronosyltransferase 1A1 (UGT1A1), the enzyme necessary for the conjugation of bilirubin.
Individuals homozygous for the UGT1A1*28 allele develop Gilbert syndrome, a condition characterized by periods of mild unconjugated hyperbilirubinemia.
In addition, individuals positive for the UGT1A1*28 allele are more likely to experience severe adverse effects during irinotecan chemotherapy.
Identifying a patient's genotype for the UGT1A1 allele helps determine appropriate starting dosages for irinotecan, reducing the risk of severe toxicity and improving overall therapy.
Melanin is a class of compounds found in plants, animals, and protists, where it serves predominantly as a pigment.
In animals melanin pigments are derivatives of the amino acid tyrosine.
The most common form of biological melanin is eumelanin, a brown-black polymer of dihydroxyindole carboxylic acids, and their reduced forms.
Technically all melanins are derivatives of polyacetylene.
The most common melanin, dopamelanin is a mixed copolymer of polyacetylene, polyaniline and polypyrrole.
Another common form of melanin is pheomelanin, a red-brown polymer of benzothiazine units largely responsible for red hair and freckles.
The presence of melanin in the archaea and bacteria kingdoms is an issue of ongoing debate amongst researchers in the field.
The increased production of melanin in human skin is called melanogenesis.
Production of melanin is stimulated by DNA damage induced by UVB-radiation, and it leads to a delayed development of a tan.
This melanogenesis-based tan takes more time to develop, but it is long lasting.
Bovine serum albumin (also known as BSA or "Fraction V") is a serum albumin protein that has numerous biochemical applications including ELISAs (Enzyme-Linked Immunosorbent Assay), immunoblots, and immunohistochemistry.
It is also used as a nutrient in cell and microbial culture.
The nutritional status (weight) of an animal is usually recorded as a Likert scale with ideal condition at the middle of the scale, underweight at the low end and overweight at the top.
A five point scale is common but so are a number of other "numeric" ordinal scales.
A carbonic anhydrase inhibitor that is used in the treatment of glaucoma.
3-Hydroxyisovalerylcarnitine is a primary marker for 3-Methylcrotonyl-CoA carboxylase deficiency, Beta-Ketothiolase deficiency, Multiple carboxylase deficiency, 3-Hydroxy-3-methylglutaric aciduria, 2-Methyl-3-hydroxybutyric aciduria, Maternal 3-Methylcrotonyl-CoA carboxylase deficiency, and 2-Methylbutyrylglycinuria.
A mosquito-borne species of the PHLEBOVIRUS genus found in eastern, central, and southern Africa, producing massive hepatitis, abortion, and death in sheep, goats, cattle, and other animals.
It also has caused disease in humans.
Erythrocyte deformability refers to the changes in erythrocyte shape based on changes in the red blood cell water content and membrane surface area both of which are associated with impaired red blood cell survival.
The laser-diffraction viscometer that measures these cellular parameters is an ektacytometer that is able to detect the changes in water content and membrane surface area with a high degree of sensitivity.
The shape of the profiles and the position of characteristics along the osmolality axis are created by the ektacytometer and correspond to a number of hematologic disorders.
Hemolytic disorders associated with change in red cell volume or surface area include hereditary stomatocytosis (increased volume) hereditary xerocytosis (decreased volume) and immune hemolytic anemia (decreased membrane surface area).
Hereditary spherocytosis and hereditary pyropoikilocystosis involve changes in both cell volume and membrane surface area.
Major histocompatibility complex, class II, DP alpha 1, also known as HLA-DPA1, is a human gene.
The ARSA gene (arylsulfatase A) is located on chromosome 22q13.33.
The protein encoded by this gene hydrolyzes cerebroside sulfate to cerebroside and sulfate.
Defects in this gene lead to metachromatic leucodystrophy (MLD), a progressive demyelination disease which results in a variety of neurological symptoms and ultimately death.
Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been described for this gene.
Oxaprozin is classified as a propionic acid nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) that is used to primarily treat chronic arthritis.
The drug inhibits COX-1 and COX-2 isoforms which makes it effective in reducing pain and inflammation.
Common side effects of COX-1 inhibation can include gastrointestinal side effects.
Helmet cells are helmet-shaped red blood cell fragments without a central pallor.
Helmet cells are a subset of fragmented red cells, the other two being schistocytes and triangular cells.
Fragmented red blood cells (rbcs) occur when the rbcs undergo rips and tears from fibrin strands in microcirculation or trauma occurring in macrocirculation.
Helmet cells are seen in fragmentation anemias.
Proliferation of Candida albicans is used in the evaluation of patients with primary and secondary immunodeficiency diseases which affect T-lymphocytes.
Recall antigens, such as Candida albicans and Tetanus toxoid, are capable of inducing anamnestic (recall) T cell response and stimulating lymphocyte proliferation.
Used to assess T cell function in patients havingimmunosuppressive therapy and to evaluate patients with cellular or humoral immunodeficiency diseases, which include SCID (Severe Combined Immunodeficiency), CVID (Common Variable Immunodeficiency), and DiGeorge syndrome.
1,2-Dichloropropane is an organic compound classified as a chlorocarbon.
It is a colorless, flammable liquid with a chloroform-like odor.
A protein phytotoxin from the seeds of Ricinus communis, the castor oil plant.
It agglutinates cells, is proteolytic, and causes lethal inflammation and hemorrhage if taken internally.
The INS gene (insulin) is located on chromosome 11p15.5.
After removal of the precursor signal peptide, proinsulin is post-translationally cleaved into three peptides: the B chain and A chain peptides, which are covalently linked via two disulfide bonds to form insulin, and C-peptide.
Binding of insulin to the insulin receptor (INSR) stimulates glucose uptake.
A multitude of mutant alleles with phenotypic effects have been identified.
There is a read-through gene, INS-IGF2, which overlaps with this gene at the 5' region and with the IGF2 gene at the 3' region.
Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants.
Lovage (Levisticum officinale) is a plant, the leaves and seeds or fruit of which are used to flavor food, especially in South European cuisine.
It is a tall (3 to 9 ft) perennial that vaguely resembles its cousin celery in appearance and in flavor.
A macroglobulin is a plasma globulin of high molecular weight.
Elevated levels of macroglobulins (macroglobulinemia) may cause manifestations of excess blood viscosity (as is the case for IgM antibodies in Waldenström macroglobulinemia) and/or precipitate within blood vessels when temperature drops (as in cryoglobulinaemia).
Other macroglobulins include alpha-2 macroglobulin, which is elevated in nephrotic syndrome, diabetes, severe burns, and other conditions, while a deficiency is associated with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease.
The TOR1A gene (torsin family 1, member A (torsin A)) is located on chromosome 9q34.
The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the AAA family of adenosine triphosphatases (ATPases), is related to the Clp protease/heat shock family and is expressed prominently in the substantia nigra pars compacta.
Mutations in this gene result in the autosomal dominant disorder, torsion dystonia 1.
Found on alll leukocytes.
May be reduced/absent in ALL, Lymphoblastic lymphoma, large cell anaplastic lymphoma, immunoblastic lymphoma, plasma cell proliferations
Aspalathus linearis is an indigenous South African plant.
The stems and leaves are used to make an herbal tea known as rooibos, bush tea, red tea, or redbush tea.
A sympathomimetic drug used primarily as an appetite depressant.
Its actions and mechanisms are similar to DEXTROAMPHETAMINE.
A species of ORTHOPOXVIRUS causing infections in humans.
No infections have been reported since 1977 and the virus is now believed to be virtually extinct.
1,1-Dichloroethane is a chlorinated hydrocarbon.
It is a colorless oily liquid with a chloroform-like odor.
It is not easily soluble in water, but miscible with most organic solvents.
Beta-hexosaminidase subunit alpha (HEXA) is responsible for the degradation of GM2 gangliosides, and a variety of other molecules containing terminal N-acetyl hexosamines, in the brain and other tissues.
Reduced or absent levels of HEXA and accumulation of GM2 gangliosides in the neuronal cells is characteristic of GM2-gangliosidosis 1 (GM2G1), and autosomal recessive lysosomal storage disease that leads to neurodegeneration and, in the infantile form, death in early childhood.
Fifteen out of sixteen cow's milk allergic patients had IgE antibodies against sheep's milk.
A glucocorticoid used in the management of ASTHMA, the treatment of various skin disorders, and allergic RHINITIS.
A chlorinated hydrocarbon used as an industrial solvent and cooling liquid in electrical transformers.
It is a potential carcinogen.
Lymphocytes with IgD surface Ag
Nutritional factor found in milk, eggs, malted barley, liver, kidney, heart, and leafy vegetables.
The richest natural source is yeast.
It occurs in the free form only in the retina of the eye, in whey, and in urine; its principal forms in tissues and cells are as flavin mononucleotide and flavin-adenine dinucleotide.
Trimipramine is an tricyclic antidepressant with sedative and anxiolytic properties.
Trimipramine is metabolized to nortrimipramine.
Trimipramine is used to treat endogenous and neurotic depression with agitation and anxiety, depressive and non-depressive insomnia, adjunctive therapy of alcohol and opioid withdrawal, and chronic pain of malignant and non-malignant origin.
Trimipramine is not an abusable substance nor does it cause psychological dependence.
Withdrawal symptoms occurs when treatment with trimipramine is stopped abruptly.
Species within groups of fish, like Gadiformes (examples: codfish and hake) and Scombroid fishes (examples: mackerel and tuna) seem to share allergenic components.
The overlap of allergen specificity between the groups seems to be moderate or even small.
The most common symptoms in a group of megrim-allergic children were urticaria and angioedema.
Asthma related to inhalation of cooking steam was reported.
Candida albicans is a diploid yeast of the genus Candida.
Systemic fungal infections, including those by C. albicans, have emerged as important causes of morbidity and mortality in immunocompromised patients (e.g., HIV, cancer chemotherapy, organ or bone marrow transplantation).
C. albicans represents nearly half of clinical isolates of the Candida genus, and hospital-acquired infections by this organism have become a major health concern.
The genome of C. albicans is highly dynamic due to frequent karyotypic alterations, which cause changes in its phenotype and successful adaptation.
Optochin (or ethylhydrocupreine) is a chemical used in cell culture techniques for the presumptive identification of Streptococcus pneumoniae, which is optochin-sensitive, from other alpha-hemolytic streptococci such as Streptococcus viridans which are resistant.
A common mnemonic is "OVRPS" (Optochin - Viridans Resistant, Pneumoniae Sensitive).
Or "VROPS" (Viridans Resistant Optochin, Pneumoniae Sensitive)
The growth of bacteria that are optochin sensitive will be inhibited around an optochin disc, while the growth of bacteria that are optochin resistant will not be affected.
In vitro a solution of as little as 1:10,000,000 may be inhibitory to the pneumococcus, and 1:500,000 is bactericidal.
Octanoylcarnitine is a primary marker for Medium-chain acyl-CoA dehydrogenase deficiency, Glutaric acidemia type II and Medium-chain ketoacyl-CoA thiolase deficiency.
Recombinant non-glycosylated protein produced in an E. coli strain carrying a cloned cDNA encoding Arachis hypogaea allergen Ara h 1, Ara h 2 or Ara h 3.
Ara h 1 comprises 12% to 16% of the total protein in Peanut in population studies, sensitisation to Ara h 1 was found in 95% of Peanut-allergic patients from North America, but in fewer Peanut-allergic patients of 3 European populations, varying from 35% to 70%.
These differences were not reported for Ara h 2, even though Peanuts from different varieties and from different parts of the world contain similar proteins and the IgE binding properties are similar.
Unidentified Peanut proteins with molecular weights somewhat lower than 15 kDa may be important allergens as well.
Ara h 3 is recognised by serum IgE from 45% - 50% of patients with Peanut sensitivity.
Polyspecific organic cation transporters in the liver, kidney, intestine, and other organs are critical for elimination of many endogenous small organic cations as well as a wide array of drugs and environmental toxins.
The encoded protein is a plasma integral membrane protein which functions both as an organic cation transporter and as a sodium-dependent high affinity carnitine transporter.
The encoded protein is involved in the active cellular uptake of carnitine.
Mutations in SLC22A5 gene are the cause of systemic primary carnitine deficiency (CDSP), an autosomal recessive disorder manifested early in life by hypoketotic hypoglycemia and acute metabolic decompensation, and later in life by skeletal myopathy or cardiomyopathy
4-Aminosalicylic acid, commonly known as PAS, is an antibiotic used to treat tuberculosis.
This organic compound has been use since the 1940s for the treatment of inflammatory bowel diseases (IBDs), where it has shown greater potency in Ulcerative Colitis and Crohn's disease.
It is thought to act via NF-κB (nuclear factor-kappa B) inhibition and free radical scavenging.
5-Aminosalicylic acid, sold under the name mesalazine, is a closely related compound that also has medical uses.
Antibodies to ribonucleoprotein(RNP) are eleveated in patients with Systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) and other connective tissue disorders.
Pelargonium is a genus of flowering plants which includes about 200 species of perennials, succulents, and shrubs, commonly known as scented geraniums or storksbills.
Iloperidone, also known as Fanapt, Fanapta, and previously known as Zomaril, is an atypical antipsychotic for the treatment of schizophrenia.
It was approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for use in the United States on May 6, 2009.
Ethyl alcohol (ethanol, drinking alcohol) is a central nervous system depressant and can cause effects such as impaired judgment, reduced alertness and impaired muscular coordination.
Ethanol can also be a product of decomposition or degradation of biological samples
Boron is a mineral that is found in food and the environment.
People take boron supplements as medicine.
Boron is used for building strong bones, treating osteoarthritis, as an aid for building muscles and increasing testosterone levels, and for improving thinking skills and muscle coordination.
Women sometimes use capsules containing boric acid, the most common form of boron, inside the vagina to treat yeast infections.
People also apply boric acid to the skin as an astringent or to prevent infection; or use it as an eye wash.
Boron was used as a food preservative between 1870 and 1920, and during World Wars I and II.
Chamaecyparis obtusa (Japanese cypress, hinoki cypress or hinok) is a species of cypress native to central Japan.
Candida parapsilosis is a commensal fungus of human skin and a major cause of infection in immunocompromised and hospitalized patients with serious comorbidities.
It is oval, round, or cylindrical in shape, and exists as a yeast or pseudohyphae.
Infection with C parapsilosis in humans has increased significantly over the past 10 years, and is especially dangerous to critically ill neonates, that experience more than 25% of all invasive fungal infections in low-birth weight infants in the United Kingdom, and nearly one-third of neonatal Candida bloodstream infections in North America.
C parapsilosis is known to be spread by hand contact in the hospital environment, but can also form biofilms on catheters and other implant devices and spread from there.
It is not an obligate human pathogen and has been isolated from domestic animals, insects, soil, and marine environments.
The dominant allergen in dog epithelium (e2).
Dog dander (e5), however, contains several allergens such as albumin and other serum proteins, and is thus a more sensitive test.
Nortapentadol (N-Desmethyltapentadol) is the main metabolite of tapentadol (fentanyl), a centrally-acting analgesic with a dual mode of action as an opioid agonist and a norepinephrine reuptake inhibitor.
Aspartate aminotransferase (AST) is an enzyme that is released by injured muscle cells and liver cell and is predominately found in the liver and heart.
AST levels in the blood are most often used to monitor liver damage.
AST is typically tested in conjunction with alanine aminotransferase (ALT) when a liver panel is ordered.
High levels of AST in the bloodstream could indicate hepatitis, drug damage to the liver, cirrhosis, alcoholism, or other liver disorders.
Juniperus pinchotii (Pinchot Juniper or Redberry Juniper; syn. J. erythrocarpa Cory, J. texensis van Melle) is a species of juniper native to southwestern North America, in Mexico: Nuevo León and Coahuila, and in the United States: southeast New Mexico, central Texas, and western Oklahoma.
It grows at 600-2,100 m altitude
Staphylococcus saprophyticus (S. saprophyticus) is a gram-positive coccus that is a common cause of uncomplicated urinary tract infections (UTIs).
S. saprophyticus is part of the perineum, rectum, urethra, cervix, and gastrointestinal tract human flora.
It is also found in pig and cow gastrointestinal flora, which can transfer to humans when consuming respective foods.
S. saprophyticus is known to be resistant to Novobiocin.
Veterinary Medicine: Tiamulin is a pleuromutilin antibiotic drug that is used in veterinary medicine particularly for pigs and poultry.
Tiamulin is a diterpene antimicrobial with a pleuromutilin chemical structure similar to that of valnemulin.
Acute promyelocytic leukemia (APL) involves the t(15;17)(PML;RARα )(q22;q12) translocation occurring between the promyelocytic leukemia (PML) gene and the retinoic acid receptor - alpha (RARα) gene, leading to expression of the PML- RARα fusion protein.
This test detects the presence of this translocation by examining the subcellular distribution of PML by Immunofluorescence (IF).
Normally, IF staining for PML using antibodies directed against the PML protein appears as a granular pattern of 5 to 30 discrete intranuclear particles.
This is the case in normal cells.
However, in acute promyelocytic leukemia, the PML- RARα fusion protein forms heterodimers with the wild type PML protein.
This sequestration changes the cellular localization of PML such that IF staining becomes more diffuse, known as a microgranular pattern.
Detecting APL is important because quickly beginning therapy with all trans retinoic acid is important for management
Pistachio is a green, edible seed obtained from the Pistachio tree, which belongs to the Anacardiaceae (Sumac) family, along with Mango and Cashew nut.
The Pistachio tree grows up to 10 m high and has deciduous pinnate leaves up to 20 cm long.
It is native to the mountainous regions of central and south-western Asia.
Pistachio is now cultivated in other parts of the world, particularly in California and Australia.
Pistachio may uncommonly cause symptoms of food allergy in sensitised individuals.
Adverse reactions are similar to those seen with other tree nuts and include symptoms of oral allergy and food allergy, cutaneous manifestations, angioedema and severe anaphylaxis.
Jamestown Canyon virus (JCV), a member of the California serogroup, has a wide geographic distribution throughout much of temperate North America.
It causes mild febrile illness and, rarely, aseptic meningitis or primary encephalitis.
Transmission is through mosquito bites.
Micronutrients are dietary components, often referred to as vitamins and minerals, which although only required by the body in small amounts, are vital to development, disease prevention, and well-being.
Micronutrients are not produced in the body and must be derived from the diet.
Cat albumin (Fel d 2), a 65-69 kDa protein, is found in serum, dander and saliva.
About 15%-25% of Cat-allergic individuals are sensitive to Cat albumin, and for a few patients this may be the predominant allergen.
Hydroxymethylglutaryl CoA lyase deficiency (HMG; also known as 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl-coenzyme A lyase deficiency and 3-Hydroxy-3-methylglutaric aciduria) is an inherited disorder in which the body is unable to process the amino acid leucine or make ketones properly.
Within the first year of life, this condition causes episodes of vomiting, diarrhea, dehydration, lethargy, hypotonia, hypoglycemia, and metabolic acidosis.
If untreated, this disorder can lead to breathing problems, convulsions, coma, and death.
HMG deficiency is caused by mutations in the HMGCL gene and has an autosomal recessive pattern of inheritance.
Acepromazine or acetylpromazine (more commonly known as ACP, Ace, or by the trade names Atravet or Acezine 2, (number depending on mg/ml dose)) is a phenothiazine derivative antipsychotic drug.
It was first used in humans in the 1950s, but is now little used in humans (the closely related analogue, chlorpromazine, is still used as an antipsychotic in humans).
Acepromazine is frequently used in animals as a sedative and antiemetic.
Its principal value is as a chemical restraint in hyper or fractious animals
Articaine is a dental local anesthetic.
It is the most widely used local anesthetic in a number of European countries and is available in many countries around the world.
In Candida auris, the internal transcribed spacer 2 (ITS2) region is located in the ribosomal gene.
Assays targeting the ITS2 region have been developed to control and prevent the spread of C. auris and related species in healthcare settings.
and on surfaces in the environment, causing transmission of C. auris from patient to patient.
Some C. auris strains are resistant to all three major classes of antifungal drugs, which has not been reported before in other species of Candida.
Measurement of the polarization of fluorescent light from solutions or microscopic specimens.
It is used to provide information concerning molecular size, shape, and conformation, molecular anisotropy, electronic energy transfer, molecular interaction, including dye and coenzyme binding, and the antigen-antibody reaction.
The EXT1 gene (exostosin glycosyltransferase 1) is located on chromosome 8q24.11.
This gene encodes an endoplasmic reticulum-resident type II transmembrane glycosyltransferase involved in the chain elongation step of heparan sulfate biosynthesis.
Mutations in this gene cause the type I form of multiple exostoses.
Orphenadrine (sold under the brand names: Norflex, Mephenamin, Disipal, Banflex, Flexon, Biorphen, Brocasipal, Dolan, Norgesic, OrfenAce and others) is an anticholinergic drug of the ethanolamine antihistamine class with prominent CNS and peripheral actions used to treat painful muscle spasms, other similar conditions, as well as the treatment of some aspects of Parkinson's Disease.
It is closely related to diphenhydramine.
A serovar of the bacterial species LEPTOSPIRA INTERROGANS, whose natural host is DOGS where disease is characterized by GASTROENTERITIS, and INTERSTITIAL NEPHRITIS.
A species of bacteria that causes ANTHRAX in humans and animals.
Formed by the breakdown of lipid-rich epithelial cells, these are hyaline casts with fat globule inclusions, yellowish-tan in color.
If cholesterol or cholesterol esters are present, they are associated with the "Maltese cross" sign under polarized light.
They can be present in various disorders, including the high urinary protein nephrotic syndrome, diabetic or lupus nephropathy, or larger-scale necrosis or epithelial cell death.
In colloquial use, herpes virus refers to the herpes simplex virus, particularly when transmitted sexually.
In scientific use, herpesvirus (without the space) refers to a virus of the taxonomic family herpesviridae.
The net fluid removal goal for the session during intermittent hemodialysis (IHD).
The SDHC gene (succinate dehydrogenase complex, subunit C, integral membrane protein, 15kDa) is located on chromosome 1q23.3.
This gene encodes one of four nuclear-encoded subunits that comprise succinate dehydrogenase, also known as mitochondrial complex II, a key enzyme complex of the tricarboxylic acid cycle and aerobic respiratory chains of mitochondria.
The encoded protein is one of two integral membrane proteins that anchor other subunits of the complex, which form the catalytic core, to the inner mitochondrial membrane.
There are several related pseudogenes for this gene on different chromosomes.
Mutations in this gene have been associated with paragangliomas.
Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been described.
A colorless, flammable liquid used in the manufacture of formaldehyde and acetic acid.
It is also used as a solvent.
Ingestion of methanol is toxic and may cause blindness.
A benzodiazepine used as an anti-anxiety agent with few side effects.
It also has hypnotic, anticonvulsant, and considerable sedative properties and has been proposed as a preanesthetic agent.
The speed of the fan that controls the airflow in an infant incubator.
The myeloblast is a unipotent stem cell, which will differentiate into one of the effectors of the Granulocyte series.
These cells descend from the primitive reticulum cells, which are found in the stroma of the marrow.
There is also an intermediate phase between the myeloblast and these primitive reticulum cell, namely the hemocytoblast.
At this time several developing blood cell lines are available, like erythropoiesis and thrombopoiesis.
The granulopoiesis is regulated by humoral agents, like Colony Stimulating Factor and Interleukin 3.
Most common problem with malfunctioning myeloblasts is the acute myeloblastic leukemia.
The main clinical features are caused by failure of the hemopoiesis with anemia, hemorrhage and infection as result.
There is a progressive accumulation of leukemic cells, because some blast progenitor cells renew themselves and will have a limited differentiated division.
Key mediators are the cell-density and Colony Stimulating Factor(CSF).
A few acute myeloblastic leukemia can be initiated by earlier hematologic disorder, like pancytopenia, hypoplasia of the bone marrow.
Hemoglobin F is used to screen for fetal-to-maternal hemorrrhage.
The presence of fetal red cells in the maternal circulation may be identified by use of the acid elution principle first described by Kleihauer, Brown, and Betke, or by several modifications.
Very small volumes of red cells commonly escape from the fetal intravascular compartment across the placental barrier into the maternal intervillous space.
Glycine max native (nGly m) 6 (allergen code f432) is a legumin-like protein purified from a soy extract.
The presence of nGly m 6 IgE antibodies indicates an allergy to soybeans.
The exposure route for Gly m 6 is ingestion.
Testing for IgE antibodies may be used to help diagnose an allergic disease or the cause of an anaphylactic episode in a patient.
Reboxetine is an antidepressant drug used in the treatment of clinical depression, panic disorder and ADD/ADHD.
Its mesylate (i.e. methanesulfonate) salt is sold under tradenames including Edronax, Norebox, Prolift, Solvex, Davedax or Vestra.
This phosphonic acid derivative is an antiviral medication used to treat herpes viruses, including drug resistant cytomegalovirus (CMV) and herpes simplex viruses types 1 and 2 (HSV-1 and HSV-2).
It is particularly used to treat CMV retinitis.
Foscarnet can be used to treat highly treatment experienced patients with HIV as part of salvage therapy.
Catecholamines are chemical compounds derived from the amino acid tyrosine.
Some of them are biogenic amines.
Catecholamines are water soluble and are 50% bound to plasma proteins, so they circulate in the bloodstream.
The most abundant catecholamines are epinephrine (adrenaline), norepinephrine (noradrenaline) and dopamine.
They are produced mainly from the adrenal medulla and the postganglionic fibers of the sympathetic nervous system.
Epinephrine acts as a neurotransmitter in the central nervous system and as a hormone in the blood circulation.
Norepinephrine is primarily a neurotransmitter of the peripheral sympathetic nervous system but is also present in the blood (mostly through spillover from the synapses of the sympathetic system).
High catecholamine levels in blood are associated with stress, which can be induced from psychological reactions or environmental stressors such as elevated sound levels or intense light.
Hepatitis B is a disease of the liver caused by the Hepatitis B virus (HBV), a member of the Hepadnavirus family and one of several unrelated viral species which cause viral hepatitis.
It was originally known as serum hepatitis and has caused recent epidemics in parts of Asia and Africa.
Symptoms of the acute illness include liver inflammation, vomiting, jaundice, and rarely, death.
Chronic hepatitis B may cause liver cirrhosis which may then lead to liver cancer.
Walnut is the common name given to twenty species of deciduous trees in the genus Juglans, of which six species are native to the United States.
Walnut is native to California, but about 15 related species occur in North and South America as well as in central and southern parts of Europe and Asia.
Anecdotal evidence suggests that asthma, allergic rhinitis and allergic conjunctivitis are common following exposure to pollen from Walnut tree; however, few specific studies have been reported to date.
Sarafloxacin (INN) is a quinolone antibiotic drug, which was removed from clinical use by the manufacturer (Abbott Laboratories) April 30, 2001.
Cathinone (also known as benzoylethanamine, or β-keto-amphetamine) is a naturally occuring stimulant found in the shrub Catha edulis (khat) and is chemically similar to ephedrine, cathine, methcathinone and other amphetamines.
It is probably the main contributor to the stimulant effect of Catha edulis.
Cathinone differs from many other amphetamines in that it has a ketone functional group.
Cathinone has a pharmacological profile closely resembling that of amphetamine and shares the action of amphetamine on the CNS as well as its sympathomimetic effects.
LAD-1 is clinically characterized by recurrent infections, impaired wound healing, delayed umbilical cord separation, persistent leukocytosis, and recurrent soft tissue and oral infections.
Each of the beta2-integrins is a heterodimer composed of an alpha chain (CD11a, CD11b, or CD11c) noncovalently linked to a common beta2-subunit (CD18).
The alpha-beta heterodimers of the beta2-integrin family include LFA-1 (CD11a/CD18), Mac-1/CR3 (CD11b/CD18), and p150/95 (CD11c/CD18).(1-4) The CD18 gene, ITGB2, and its product are required for normal expression of the alpha-beta heterodimers.
Therefore, defects in CD18 expression lead to either very low or no surface membrane expression of CD11a, CD11b, and CD11c.
Noroxycodone is a metabolite of Oxycodone.
Oxycodone is metabolized to α and β oxycodol; oxymorphone, then α and β oxymorphol and noroxymorphone; and noroxycodone, then α and β noroxycodol and noroxymorphone (N-desmethyloxycodone).
Cancer that begins in squamous cells, which are thin, flat cells that look like fish scales.
Squamous cells are found in the tissue that forms the surface of the skin, the lining of the hollow organs of the body, and the passages of the respiratory and digestive tracts.
Also called epidermoid carcinoma.
A nonmetallic element (I), atomic number 53, of the halogen group, iodine and compounds are primarily used in nutrition, and industrially in the production of acetic acid and certain polymers.
It is an essential element, especially important in thyroid hormone synthesis.
In solution, it has anti-infective properties and is used topically and many X-ray contrast materials.
A number of iodine radioisotopes are also used in medical applications.
In areas where there is little iodine in the diet, typically remote inland areas and semi-arid equatorial climates where no marine foods are eaten, iodine deficiency gives rise to hypothyroidism, symptoms of which are extreme fatigue, goiter, mental slowing, depression, weight gain, and low basal body temperatures.
Elemental iodine (I2) is toxic if taken orally.
The lethal dose for an adult human is 30 mg/kg, which is about 2.1-2.4 grams.
Some people develop a hypersensitivity to iodine-containing products and foods.
Bumetanide is a loop diuretic of the sulfamyl category to treat heart failure.
It is often used in patients in whom high doses of furosemide are ineffective.
It is marketed by Hoffmann-La Roche with the brand name Bumex.
There is however no reason not to use bumetanide as a first choice drug.
The main difference between the two substances is in bioavailability.
Furosemide is incompletely absorbed in the intestine (40%), and there is substantial inter- and intraindividual differences in bioavailability (range 10-90%).
Bumetanide is completely absorbed (80%), and the absorption is not altered when it is taken with food.
It is said to be a more predictable diuretic, meaning that the predictable absorption is reflected in a more predictable effect.
Bumetanide is 40 times more potent than furosemide (for patients with normal renal function).
Myocardial function is assessed based on wall motion of the ventricular segments.
Wall motion includes wall thickening and endocardial motion.
Abnormal segmental wall motion may result from a variety of disorders, including coronary artery stenoses, myocardial scarring, myocarditis, sarcoidosis, stress-induced (takotsubo) cardiomyopathy, and left bundle branch block or other conduction abnormalities.
The American Society of Echocardiography recommends the following wall motion scoring system: 1) normal or hyperkinetic; 2) hypokinetic (reduced thickening); 3) akinetic (absent or negligible thickening, e.g., scar); and 4) dyskinetic (systolic thinning or stretching, e.g., aneurysm).
Pinus virginiana (Virginia Pine, Scrub Pine, Jersey Pine) is a medium-sized tree, often found on poorer soils from Long Island in southern New York south through the Appalachian Mountains to western Tennessee and Alabama
Imipenem is an intravenous beta-lactam antibiotic developed in 1985.
Imipenem belongs to the subgroup of carbapenems.
It is derived from a compound called thienamycin, which is produced by the bacteria Streptomyces cattleya.
Imipenem has a broad spectrum of activity against aerobic and anaerobic Gram positive as well as Gram negative bacteria.
It is particularly important for its activity against Pseudomonas aeruginosa and the Enterococcus species.
It is not active, however, against methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus.
Imipenem and other drugs in the carbapenem class are commonly referred to as magic bullets.
Their use is restricted to avoid widespread bacterial resistance.
Micafungin (trade name Mycamine) is an echinocandin antifungal drug developed by Astellas Pharma.
It inhibits the production of beta-1,3-glucan, an essential component of fungal cell walls.
Micafungin is administered intravenously.
It received final approval from the United States Food and Drug Administration on March 16, 2005, and gained approval in the European Union on April 25, 2008.
The NCF2 gene (neutrophil cytosolic factor 2) is located on chromosome 1q25.
This gene encodes neutrophil cytosolic factor 2, the 67-kilodalton cytosolic subunit of the multi-protein NADPH oxidase complex found in neutrophils.
This oxidase produces a burst of superoxide which is delivered to the lumen of the neutrophil phagosome.
Mutations in this gene, as well as in other NADPH oxidase subunits, can result in chronic granulomatous disease, a disease that causes recurrent infections by catalase-positive organisms.
Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms.
Ribonucleoprotein antibody (anti-RNP) is an antinuclear autoantibody (ANA) that binds to the U1-ribonucleoprotein of the ribonucleoprotein multi-enzyme complex.
Anti-RNP belongs to the extractable nuclear antigen (ENA) subset of ANA.
The anti-RNP binds with the U1-ribonucleoprotein, which is part of the ribonucleoprotein multi-enzyme complex.
Anti-RNP-70 is a 70 kDa U1-RNP protein that provides the highest diagnostic sensitivity for MCTD.
Some patients with autoimmune diseases, including systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) and systemic sclerosis, can also produce anti-RNP antibodies.
Meclofenamic acid is a drug used for joint and muscular pain.
It inhibits the synthesis of prostaglandins.
The PLOD3 gene (procollagen-lysine, 2-oxoglutarate 5-dioxygenase 3) is located on chromosome 7q22.
The protein encoded by this gene is a membrane-bound homodimeric enzyme that is localized to the cisternae of the rough endoplasmic reticulum.
The enzyme (cofactors iron and ascorbate) catalyzes the hydroxylation of lysyl residues in collagen-like peptides.
The resultant hydroxylysyl groups are attachment sites for carbohydrates in collagen and thus are critical for the stability of intermolecular crosslinks.
Some patients with Ehlers-Danlos syndrome type VIB have deficiencies in lysyl hydroxylase activity.
Pancreatic Elastase testing is used to aid diagnosis of the exocrine pancreatic function.
Pancreatic elastase is a digestive enzyme produced exclusively by the pancreas.
The enzyme is responsible for breaking down protein in food.
Pancreatic insufficiency occurs when the pancreas cannot produce enough digestive enzymes to break down food in the intestine for absorption.
The KIAA0196 gene (KIAA0196) is located on chromosome 8q24.13.
This gene encodes a 134 kDa protein named strumpellin that is predicted to have multiple transmembrane domains and a spectrin-repeat-containing domain.
This ubiquitously expressed gene has its highest expression in skeletal muscle.
The protein is named for Strumpell disease; a form of hereditary spastic paraplegia (HSP).
Spastic paraplegias are a diverse group of disorders in which the autosomal dominant forms are characterized by progressive, lower extremity spasticity caused by axonal degeneration in the terminal portions of the longest descending and ascending corticospinal tracts.
More than 30 loci (SPG1-33) have been implicated in hereditary spastic paraplegia diseases.
The MTR gene (5-methyltetrahydrofolate-homocysteine methyltransferase) is located on chromosome 1q43.
This gene encodes the 5-methyltetrahydrofolate-homocysteine methyltransferase.
This enzyme, also known as cobalamin-dependent methionine synthase, catalyzes the final step in methionine biosynthesis.
Mutations in MTR have been identified as the underlying cause of methylcobalamin deficiency complementation group G. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms have been found for this gene.
Semliki Forest virus (SFV) is a positive-stranded RNA virus that was isolated in 1944 in Uganda.
SFV belongs to the family Togaviridae, genus Alphavirus.
Alphaviruses are mosquito-transmitted RNA viruses producing acute symptoms including mild febrile illness, rash, arthralgia, myalgia and encephalitis .
Hexachloroethane, also known as perchloroethane (PCA), C2Cl6, is a colorless solid at room temperature which is used by the US Military in smoke compositions, e.g. in contemporary base-eject smoke munitions.
Hexachloroethane is used in most aluminium foundries around the world to remove hydrogen.
The CLA2 gene (ATPase, Ca++ transporting, plasma membrane 3) gene is located on chromosome Xq28.
The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the family of P-type primary ion transport ATPases characterized by the formation of an aspartyl phosphate intermediate during the reaction cycle.
These enzymes remove bivalent calcium ions from eukaryotic cells against very large concentration gradients and play a critical role in intracellular calcium homeostasis.
The mammalian plasma membrane calcium ATPase isoforms are encoded by at least four separate genes and the diversity of these enzymes is further increased by alternative splicing of transcripts.
The expression of different isoforms and splice variants is regulated in a developmental, tissue- and cell type-specific manner, suggesting that these pumps are functionally adapted to the physiological needs of particular cells and tissues.
This gene encodes the plasma membrane calcium ATPase isoform 3.
Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been identified.
Glucose tetrasaccharide, is a glycogen-derived limit dextrin that is associated with the glycogen accumulation in skeletal muscle.
Glc(4) is more useful than traditional biomarkers of tissue damage, such as CK and AST, which is used in monitoring the response to enzyme replacement therapy in patients with Pompe disease.
Glc(4) is also used in adjunctive diagnostic test for Pompe disease when performed in conjunction with acid alpha-glucosidase activity measurements.
The tubular extraction rate (TER) is a quantification of renal function that is used for the evaluation of nephro-urological diseases.
TER estimates the plasma volume cleared by the kidneys by measuring the clearance of substances that are not be filtered by other renal structures, like the glomerulus.
Lysophosphatidylcholine(18:0), or LysoPC(18:0), is a lysophospholipid (LyP).
It is a monoglycerophospholipid in which a phosphorylcholine moiety occupies a glycerol substitution site.
Lysophosphatidylcholines can have different combinations of fatty acids of varying lengths and saturation attached at the C-1 (sn-1) position.
Fatty acids containing 16, 18 and 20 carbons are the most common. LysoPC(18:0), in particular, consists of one chain of stearic acid at the C-1 position.
The stearic acid moiety is derived from animal fats, coco butter and sesame oil.
Lysophosphatidylcholine is found in small amounts in most tissues.
It is formed by hydrolysis of phosphatidylcholine by the enzyme phospholipase A2, as part of the de-acylation/re-acylation cycle that controls its overall molecular species composition.
It can also be formed inadvertently during extraction of lipids from tissues if the phospholipase is activated by careless handling.
In blood plasma significant amounts of lysophosphatidylcholine are formed by a specific enzyme system, lecithin:cholesterol acyltransferase (LCAT), which is secreted from the liver.
The enzyme catalyzes the transfer of the fatty acids of position sn-2 of phosphatidylcholine to the free cholesterol in plasma, with formation of cholesterol esters and lysophosphatidylcholine.
Lysophospholipids have a role in lipid signaling by acting on lysophospholipid receptors (LPL-R).
LPL-R's are members of the G protein-coupled receptor family of integral membrane proteins.
Ceftriaxone is a third-generation cephalosporin antibiotic.
It is effective against both Gram positive and Gram negative bacteria and in terms of safety and efficacy, it is equivalent to cefotaxime.
Ceftriaxone sodium is marketed by Hoffman-La Roche under the trade name Rocephin.
Certain protein allergens and chemicals capable of acting as haptens occur at high concentrations in workplace environments.
They represent a significant sensitization risk also for less atopic individuals exposed due to their often high concentration in the air.
Formaldehyde is widely used industrially, e.g. in textile, paper, rubber, adhesive and cosmetic manufacture, and as foams for cavity wall insulation.
Asthma-like symptoms have been reported after exposure to formaldehyde.
Leucine, an essential amino acid isomeric with isoleucine, is the most common amino acid found in proteins.
It is required for optimal growth in infancy and childhood and for nitrogen equilibrium in adults.
It is also involved in maintaining muscles mass by equalizing synthesis and breakdown of proteins.
The major food sources of leucine are whole grains, milk and milk products, eggs, meat, soy beans, and leafy vegetables.
Leucine toxicity, as seen in decompensated Maple Syrup Urine Disease (MSUD), causes delirium and neurologic compromise, and can be life-threatening.
Part of porphyrin fractionation testing useful in diagnosing porphyrin cutanea tarda, hereditary coproporphyria, and variegate porphyria.
Such patients typically will present with profound elevations of porphyrin analytes (e.g. > 5-fold) during acute episodes.
Moderate elevations (e.g. < 3-fold) are more often due to medications or environmental factors.
5,6-dihydrouracil is the product of the first step in uracil catabolism, and the pattern of the levels of uracil, 5,6-dihydrouracil and other products of uracil catabolism can be used to diagnose defects pyrimidine degradation pathway enzymes.
For example, patients with complete dihydropyrimidinase deficiency have significantly elevated 5,6-dihydrouracil and moderately elevated uracil in urine.
For patients with cancer, the toxicity of 5-fluorouracil-based chemotherapy can be predicted based on the 5,6-dihydrouracil/uracil plasma ratio.
A 150-kDa serum glycoprotein composed of three subunits with each encoded by a different gene (C8A; C8B; and C8G).
This heterotrimer contains a disulfide-linked C8alpha-C8gamma heterodimer and a noncovalently associated C8beta chain.
C8 is the next component to bind the C5-7 complex forming C5b-8 that binds COMPLEMENT C9 and acts as a catalyst in the polymerization of C9.
The rfbE gene in Escherichia coli (E coli) O157 encodes perosamine synthase and is the first O157 Shiga toxin-producing E coli (STEC) rfb locus to be cloned and sequenced.
The rfbE gene is used in PCR assays to distinguish serotype O157 from non-O157 STEC in a clinical specimens.
Although rfbE is specific for serotype O157, it does not distinguish between O157:H7 and O157:non-H7 strains.
E. coli O157:H7 (enterohemorrhagic E. coli or EHEC) is a well-known food-borne pathogen.
E. coli O157:non-H7 strains are not classified as EHEC and their clinical significance is less clear.
Such non-H7 strains have been isolated from asymptomatic patients, patients with diarrhea, as well as food and environmental sources.
Dipeptidyl aminopeptidase-like protein 6 (DPPX) is a regulatory subunit of neuronal Kv4.2 potassium channel and is encoded by the DPPX gene.
DPPX is a type II membrane protein that binds to specific voltage-gated potassium channels and changes their biophysical characteristics.
Alterations in the DPPX gene are associated with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis with idiopathic ventricular fibrillation.
IgG to DPPX is a biomarker for a frequently multifocal neurological disorder that develops insidiously, can be severe, responds to immunotherapy and is likely to relapse.
Clinical symptoms associated with postive DPPX IgG include encephalopathy (with cortical, cerebellar or brainstem manifestations), myelopathy and autonomic dysfunction.
Tartrazine is an azo dye used in many foods an drugs including antibiotics, antihistamines, steroids, bronchodilators and antidepressants (imipramine, desipramine, amitriptyline).
Allergy manifestations include anaphylactic shock, bronchospasm, urticaria (acute and chronic), angioedema, fixed drug eruption, contact dermatitis, allergic vasculitis and rhinitis.
Bartonella (formerly known as Rochalimaea) is a genus of Gram-negative bacteria.
Facultative intracellular parasites, Bartonella species can infect healthy people but are considered especially important as opportunistic pathogens.
Bartonella are transmitted by insect vectors such as fleas, sand flies and mosquitoes.
At least eight Bartonella species or subspecies are known to infect humans.
Bile acids (BAs) play a primary role in digesting dietary fats.
Primary BAs are produced in the liver by either the classic or alternative pathway.
CYP7A1 controls the production of primary BAs in the liver.
The primary BAs (chenodeoxycholic acid and cholic acid) are conjugated to either glycine or taurine to create conjugated primary BAs, which are stored in the gallbladder.
Once released into the intestinal circulation, primary BAs are modified by gut bacteria (e.g., deconjugated) to form secondary BAs.
Secondary BAs are actively reabsorbed in the terminal ileum, and travel back to the liver through the portal circulation.
Different disorders are associated with various patterns of primary and secondary BA levels.
Examples of disorders and their associated BA patterns include: Disorders of BA synthesis (information from ): 1) Inborn errors of bile acid synthesis including cerebrotendinous xanthomatosis, Zellweger syndrome, and a variety of other enzyme deficiencies - low or absent BAs 2) Bile acid conjugation defects - increased levels of unconjugated cholic and deoxycholic acid, lack of chenodeoxycholic acid Disorders of BA metabolism (information from ): 1) Inflammatory bowel disease - reduced deconjugation by gut bacteria, lower levels of secondary BAs 2) Irritable bowel syndrome - reduced deconjugation, increased levels of primary conjugated BAs, lower levels of secondary BAs 3) Short bowel syndrome - reduced levels of secondary and tertiary BAs 4) Obesity - lower levels of both primary BAs
N-methyl derivative of perfluorooctane sulfonamidoacetic acid.
The MDCR gene (tyrosine 3-monooxygenase/tryptophan 5-monooxygenase activation protein, epsilon) gene is located on chromosome 17p13.3.
This gene product belongs to the 14-3-3 family of proteins which mediate signal transduction by binding to phosphoserine-containing proteins.
This highly conserved protein family is found in both plants and mammals, and this protein is 100% identical to the mouse ortholog.
It interacts with CDC25 phosphatases, RAF1 and IRS1 proteins, suggesting its role in diverse biochemical activities related to signal transduction, such as cell division and regulation of insulin sensitivity.
It has also been implicated in the pathogenesis of small cell lung cancer.
Two transcript variants, one protein-coding and the other non-protein-coding, have been found for this gene.
Lumenex provideds a multiplexed real time PCR technology that can be used to create a panel for detecting almost any set of DNA or RNA entities.
We include this specific panel of 12 respiratory viruses because it is the only (or one of the only) PCR based panels for respiratory viruses that has been approved by the FDA and is offered as such by many commercial laboratories in North America.
The identification of a particular respiratory virus has become more important as different antiviral agents have become available.
The specimen must be of respiratory origin, e.g. nasopharyngeal washing or swab, bronchial or BAL specimen etc.
Isolated tumor cell clusters (ITCs) are tumor cell deposits that are one to 200 cells in diameter, and also less than 0.2 mm in diameter.
Haematonectria haematococca is a plant pathogen.
As of 2010, there are 8 known HIV-2 groups (A to H).
Of these, only groups A and B are epidemic.
Group A spread mainly in West Africa, but also to Angola, Mozambique, Brazil, India, and very limitedly to Europe or the US.
Group B is mainly confined to West Africa.
HIV-2 is mostly related to simian immunodeficiency virus endemic in sooty mangabeys (Cercocebus atys atys) (SIVsmm), a monkey species inhabiting the forests of littoral West Africa.
Phylogenetic analyses show that the viruses most closely related to the two strains of HIV-2 which spread considerably in humans (HIV-2 groups A and B) are the SIVsmm found in the sooty mangabeys of the Tai forest, in western Ivory Coast.
There are six additional known HIV-2 groups, each having been found in just one person.
They all seem to derive from independent transmissions from sooty mangabeys to humans.
Groups C and D have been found in two people from Liberia, groups E and F have been discovered in two people from Sierra Leone, and groups G and H have been detected in two people from the Ivory Coast.
Each of these HIV-2 strains, for which humans are probably dead-end hosts, is most closely related to SIVsmm strains from sooty mangabeys living in the same country where the human infection was found.
Dihydrothymine is an intermediate breakdown product of thymine.
Dihydropyrimidine dehydrogenase catalyzes the reduction of thymine to dihydrothymine then dihydropyrimidinase hydrolyzes dihydrothymine to N-carbamyl-b-alanine.
Finally, beta-ureidopropionase catalyzes the conversion of N-carbamyl-b-alanine to beta-alanine.
Patients with dihydropyrimidinase deficiency exhibit highly increased concentrations of 5, 6-dihydrouracil and dihydrothymine and moderately increased concentrations of uracil and thymine in urine.
Paroxetine or paroxetine hydrochloride is a selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor (SSRI) antidepressant.
It was released in 1992 by the pharmaceutical company GlaxoSmithKline and has since become one of the most prescribed antidepressants on the market due to its efficacy in treating depression as well as a spectrum of anxiety disorders ranging from panic attacks to phobias.
Reverse T3 and T3 are deiodinated metabolites of thyroxine (T4), the major secretory product of the thyroid gland.
The conversion of T4 to T3 and T3 reverse is inhibited in a wide variety of conditions including fasting, malnutrition, poorly controlled diabetes mellitus, trauma, surgery, and systemic illnesses.
Increased reverse T3 coupled with low T3 indicates sick euthyroid syndrome, not true hypothyroidism.
Information from Quest Laboratories 2006 10 24.
The 5-HTTLPR variant in the SLC6A4 (solute carrier family 6 (neurotransmitter transporter), member 4) gene is a 44-base pair promoter insertion/deletion polymorphism that has been shown to affect the rate of serotonin uptake in patients.
It may also play a role in sudden infant death syndrome, aggressive behavior in Alzheimer disease patients, and depression-susceptibility in people experiencing emotional trauma.
The serotonin transporter polymorphism results in either a long allele (L) or short allele (S) of the gene.
The "L" allele is associated with normal levels of serotonin transporter, and the "S" allele is associated with reduced serotonin transporter levels and increased risk for depression.
The sole, also called Dover sole, black sole, true sole, tounge, etc, is a highly valued fish.
The name sometimes refers to all members of the family Soleidae, and also frozen fillets of other cheaper flatfishes, e.g. flounders or dabs from the family Pleuronectidae, may appear on the market falsely labeled as sole.
A metamyelocyte is a cell undergoing granulopoiesis, derived from a myelocyte, and leading to a band cell.
It is characterized by the appearance of a bent nucleus, cytoplasmic granules, and the absence of visible nucleoli.
(If the nucleus is not yet bent, then it is likely a myelocyte.)
Estazolam (marketed under the brand names ProSom®, Eurodin®) is a drug which is a benzodiazepine derivative.
It possesses anxiolytic, anticonvulsant, sedative and skeletal muscle relaxant properties.
It is commonly prescribed for short-term treatment of insomnia.
A species of MORBILLIVIRUS causing cattle plague, a disease with high mortality.
Sheep, goats, pigs, and other animals of the order Artiodactyla can also be infected.
Hydroxycorticosteroids are corticosteroids that have an additional hydroxy (-OH) group.
There are two main positions where the hydroxy are added: at the 11, and at the 17.
Darunavir (Prezista) is a drug used to treat HIV infection.
It is in the protease inhibitor class.
Prezista is an OARAC recommended treatment option for treatment-naïve and treatment-experienced adults and adolescents.
Developed by pharmaceutical company Tibotec, darunavir is named after Arun K. Ghosh, the chemist who discovered the molecule at the University of Illinois in Chicago.
It was approved by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) on June 23, 2006.
Porphobilinogen (PBG) is a pyrrole involved in porphyrin metabolism.
It is generated by aminolevulinate (ALA) and the enzyme ALA dehydratase.
PBG is then converted into hydroxymethyl bilane by the enzyme porphobilinogen deaminase, also known as hydroxymethylbilane synthase.
Acute intermittent porphyria causes an increase in urinary porphobilinogen.
The SLC12A1 gene (solute carrier family 12 member 1) is located on chromosome 15q21.1.
The protein encoded by this gene is a sodium-potassium-chloride cotransporter that is expressed on renal epithelial cells.
This cotransporter is responsible for most of the kidney's NaCl resorption.
Defects in the gene result in Bartter-like syndromes.
Mitotic index is a measure for the proliferation status of a cell population.
It is defined as the ratio between the number of cells in mitosis and the total number of cells.
Cells in the cell cycle can be identified using antibodies against the nuclear antigen Ki-67.
The mitotic index can be worked out from a slide, even with light microscopy.
It is the number of cells containing visible chromosomes divided by the total number of cells in the field of view.
If you administer colchicine or other colchicine-derivative medications (i.e. colcemid) you can arrest the cell cycle at this point leaving the chromosomes in their visible form.
Colchicine disrupts the microtubule formation which is necessary for the spindle fibers to separate the chromosomes during anaphase.
By quantifying aspects of a dividing cell population, we can examine how cells differ in their capability to divide.
Experimentally, we can change properties of the cell's environment and quantify the effects on cell division.
For a group of cells that rarely complete the cell cycle, we expect a high proportion of cells to be in the resting stage of the cell cycle (G1).
However, in a rapidly dividing cell population, we expect a high proportion of cells to be in the stage of mitosis.
One way to quantify cell division is by using the mitotic index:
Voltage-dependent calcium channels (VDCC) are a group of voltage-gated ion channels found in excitable cells (e.g., muscle, glial cells, neurons, etc.) with a permeability to the ion Ca2+.At physiologic or resting membrane potential, VDCCs are normally closed.
They are activated (i.e., opened) at depolarized membrane potentials and this is the source of the "voltage-dependent" epithet.
Activation of particular VDCCs allows Ca2+ entry into the cell, which, depending on the cell type, results in muscular contraction, excitation of neurons, up-regulation of gene expression, or release of hormones or neurotransmitters.
Hemoglobin H Inclusions are greenish-blue inclusion bodies that appear in many erythrocytes after four drops of blood is incubated with 0.5mL of Brilliant cresyl blue for 20 minutes at 37°C.
Seen in alpha thalassemia
Direct or indirect contact with animal allergens frequently causes sensitisation
A ribosome is an organelle in cells that assembles proteins.
Ribosomes are composed of ribosomal RNA and ribosomal proteins (known as a Ribonucleoprotein or RNP).
It translates Messenger RNA (mRNA) into a polypeptide chain (e.g., a protein).
It can be thought of as a factory that builds a protein from a set of genetic instructions.
Ribosomes can float freely in the cytoplasm (the internal fluid of the cell) or bind to the endoplasmic reticulum, or to the nuclear envelope.
Since ribosomes are ribozymes, it is thought that they might be remnants of the RNA world.
Ribosomes were first observed in the mid-1950s by cell biologist George Palade in the electron microscope as dense particles or granules for which he would win the Nobel Prize.
The term ribosome was proposed by scientist Richard B. Roberts in 1958:
During the course of the symposium a semantic difficulty became apparent.
Quinethazone (INN, brand name Hydromox) is a thiazide diuretic used to treat hypertension.
Common side effects include dizziness, dry mouth, nausea, and low potassium levels.
A small dense LDL fraction, reported as part of LDL Subclasses panel.
Seven LDL subclasses (1-7) and 3 mid-band fractions can be determined by linear polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis and densitometric scanning.
A second-generation histamine H1 receptor antagonist used in the treatment of allergic rhinitis and urticaria.
Unlike most classical antihistamines (HISTAMINE H1 ANTAGONISTS)
it lacks central nervous system depressing effects such as drowsiness.
Loracarbef is an antibiotic.
Its use was discontinued in 2006.
It is a carbacephem, but it is sometimes grouped together with the second-generation cephalosporin antibiotics.
It was marketed under the trade name Lorabid.
Loracarbef is a synthetic "carba" analogue of cefaclor, and is more stable chemically.
Diarrhea is the most common adverse effect with Loracarbef.
Side effects are more frequently seen with children under the age of twelve.
Pru av 4, a member of the profilin family of allergens, is an approximately 15 kD protein associated with oral allergy syndrome (OAS) to cherry.
It is a homologous protein to Bet v 2, which has been identified as a minor pollen sensitizer in approximately 10-30% of pollen-allergic individuals.
Pru av 4 shares over 70% amino acid homology and a very similar tertiary structure with other profilins.
It is highly thermolabile and rapidly enzyme degradable, accounting for its inability to elicit systemic reaction, and its loss of allergenicity in cooked foods.
Primary sensitization to Pru av 4 develops through pollinosis and cross-reactivity to Bet v 2, and is not presumed to arise directly from cherry ingestion without previous sensitization to birch or grass profilin.
The European eel, Anguilla anguilla, is a species of eel, a snake-like, facultatively catadromous fish.
They can reach in exceptional cases a length of 1½ m, but is normally much smaller, about 60-80 cm, and rarely more than 1 m.
Gibberella fujikuroi is a fungal plant pathogen that causes bakanae disease in rice seedlings.
Neopterin is a catabolic product of GTP.
It is synthesised by macrophages upon stimulation with interferon-gamma.
It is used as a marker of HIV infection.
It belongs to the chemical group known as pterins.
Mussels enjoy a worldwide distribution in cooler seas where they attach themselves to solid objects or one another by threads.
M. edulis has been cultivated in Europe since the 13th century.
It requires one year to reach maturity in warmer seas, and as much as 3 years in cooler seas such as off the coast of Wales.
The mussel is highly productive in culture and ranges from the Pacific ocean, both sides of the Atlantic and the Mediterranean.
Skin reactivity and specific IgE have been reported to mussel.
Some crossreactivity to oyster, Ostrea edulis, (f290) could be expected.
The date that someone arrived at their travel destination.
This may or may not be the same as the date of departure to the travel destination depending on origin, destination, transportation type, departure and/or arrival times.
Glutathione S-transferase T-1 is an enzyme that in humans is encoded by the GSTT1 gene.
It is a member of a superfamily of proteins that catalyze the conjugation of reduced glutathione to a variety of electrophilic and hydrophobic compounds.
Indicates that the access to patient information is restricted due to governmental or organizational regulations.
For example, 42 CFR Part 2 ("Part 2"), recognizing that the stigma associated with substance abuse and fear of prosecution deters people from entering treatment, establishes patient consent requirements prior to the disclosure of patient health information.
Prolactin is a hormone synthesized and secreted by lactotrope cells in the adenohypophysis (anterior pituitary gland).
It is also produced in other tissues including the breast and the decidua.
Pituitary prolactin secretion is regulated by neuroendocrine neurons in the hypothalamus, most importantly by neurosecretory dopamine neurons of the arcuate nucleus, which inhibit prolactin secretion.
Levomepromazine in Germany and Methotrimeprazine in America (Sold as Nosinan Nozinan, Levoprome) is an aliphatic phenothiazine neuroleptic drug.
It is a low-potency antipsychotic (approximately half as potent as chlorpromazine) with strong analgesic and antiemetic properties.
Erythrocytes or red blood cells (RBCs) are the cells in the circulation that carry oxygen to and remove carbon dioxide from the tissues throughout the body.
They are produced in the bone marrow in response to erythropoietin where they transition through six stages over a seven day period.
When they are released into the circulation, their nucleus has been extruded and they measure 6-8 microns in diameter.
The lifespan of RBCs is about 120 days.
When the RBC ages the cell membrane becomes less pliable and tears as they cell travels through the micro vessels of the body.
The damaged RBCs are removed from the circulation by the spleen.
Variations in number, shape and size of RBCs are indicative of many diseases and disorders.
There are many factors that may lead to decreased numbers of RBCs including hemorrhage, hemolysis, iron or vitamin deficiency, marrow failure and more.
Larger than normal RBCs may be indicative of liver disease while smaller than normal RBCs are seen in thalassemias and other anemias.(Mosby's manual of diagnostic and laboratory tests, Kathleen Deska Pagana; Timothy James Pagana, Elsevier St. Louis, Mo ©2010)
Levoamphetamine (or levamfetamine) is a psychostimulant known to increase wakefulness and focus in association with decreased appetite and fatigue.
Levoamphetamine is the levorotary stereoisomer of the amphetamine molecule.
It possesses much weaker dopaminergic activity than the dextrorotary isomer (dextroamphetamine) and acts as a selective releasing agent of norepinephrine, similarly to levomethamphetamine.
The IRF6 gene (interferon regulatory factor 6) is located on chromosome 1q32.3-q41.
This gene encodes a member of the interferon regulatory transcription factor (IRF) family.
Family members share a highly-conserved N-terminal helix-turn-helix DNA-binding domain and a less conserved C-terminal protein-binding domain.
The encoded protein may be a transcriptional activator.
Mutations in this gene can cause van der Woude syndrome and popliteal pterygium syndrome.
Mutations in this gene are also associated with non-syndromic orofacial cleft type 6.
Alternate splicing results in multiple transcript variants.
Butyl nitrate is a flammable chemical compound.
Despite its health risks, it is used as an inhalant, specifically a popper.
Four or more copies of the short arm of chromosome 12 instead of the normal two.
The series of cells in the red blood cell lineage at various stages of differentiation.
Desmethylcyclobenzaprine, or N-Desmethylcyclobenzaprine or norcyclobenzaprine, is the major urinary metabolite of cyclobenzaprine, a skeletal muscle relaxant sold under various trade names such as Amrix, Fexmid, and Flexeril.
Cyclobenzaprine is used to relieve muscle spasms and associated pain from acute musculoskeletal conditions.
Quantitation of the metabolite desmethylcyclobenzaprine levels in specimens by may be performed for pain prescription monitoring, urine drug testing, and forensic analysis.
'Heavy Metal' Does Not Necessarily Mean 'Toxic'.
Common Silver Birch is native and common in most of Europe, northwest Africa and western Siberia, but absent in the southernmost parts of Europe.
It is the most common tree found in Scandinavia and the Alps, and a potent pollen producer in those areas.
Birch pollen is highly allergenic and is a significant cause of immediate hypersensitivity, in particular asthma and rhinoconjunctivitis.
The presence of reddish brown sediment in the urine, indicating uric acid, hippuric acid and creatinine excess in the blood.
It can be symptomatic of more serious problems as well.
Glyoxylic acid or oxoacetic acid is an organic compound.
Together with acetic acid, glycolic acid, and oxalic acid, glyoxylic acid is one of the C2 carboxylic acids.
It is a colorless solid that occurs naturally and is useful industrially.
Venezuelan equine encephalitis virus is a mosquito -borne viral pathogen that causes Venezuelan equine encephalitis or encephalomyelitis (VEE).
VEE can effect all equine species, such as horses, asses, and zebras.
After infection, equines may suddenly die or show progressive central nervous system disorders.
Humans also can contract this disease.
Healthy adults who become infected by the virus may experience flu -like symptoms, such as high fevers and headaches.
People with weakened immune systems and the young and the elderly can become severely ill or die from this disease.
The virus that causes VEE is transmitted primarily by mosquitoes that bite an infected animal and then bite and feed on another animal or human.
The speed with which the disease spreads depends on the subtype of the VEE virus and the density of mosquito populations.
Enzootic subtypes of VEE are diseases endemic to certain areas.
Generally these serotypes do not spread to other localities.
2-Octenoic acid is a normal organic acid produced by hepatic microsomal oxidation of aliphatic aldehydes and is a metabolite naturally found in the urine and plasma.
The NPM1 gene (nucleophosmin (nucleolar phosphoprotein B23, numatrin)) is located on chromosome 5q35.1.
This gene encodes a phosphoprotein which moves between the nucleus and the cytoplasm.
The gene product is thought to be involved in several processes including regulation of the ARF/p53 pathway.
A number of genes are fusion partners have been characterized, in particular the anaplastic lymphoma kinase gene on chromosome 2.
Mutations in this gene are associated with acute myeloid leukemia.
More than a dozen pseudogenes of this gene have been identified.
Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants.
Indicates whether this is the patient's first procedure of a particular type or a repeat or follow-up procedure.
Acetylcholine in vertebrates is the major transmitter at neuromuscular junctions, autonomic ganglia, parasympathetic effector junctions, a subset of sympathetic effector junctions, and at many sites in the central nervous system.
It is generally not used as an administered drug because it is broken down very rapidly by cholinesterases, but it is useful in some ophthalmological applications.
A 63-kDa serum glycoprotein encoded by gene C9.
Monomeric C9 (mC9) binds the C5b-8 complex to form C5b-9 which catalyzes the polymerization of C9 forming C5b-p9 (membrane attack complex) and transmembrane channels leading to lysis of the target cell.
Patients with C9 deficiency suffer from recurrent bacterial infections.
The MCOLN1 gene (mucolipin 1) is located on chromosome 19p13.2.
This gene encodes a memberof the transient receptor potential (TRP) cation channel gene family.
The transmembrane protein localizes to intracellular vesicular membranes including lysosomes, and functions in the late endocytic pathway and in the regulation of lysosomal exocytosis.
The channel is permeable to Ca(2+), Fe(2+), Na(+), K(+), and H(+), and is modulated by changes in Ca(2+) concentration.
Mutations in this gene result in mucolipidosis type IV.
Asparagus is officially classified in the family Asparagaceae; it was previously though to belong to the family Liliaceae (Lily family).
Asparagus can cause allergic symptoms through ingestion, inhalation, and contact.
Signs and symptoms range from anaphylaxis to hives, asthma, and congestion or runny nose.
Cytochrome P450 1A2 (CYP1A2)-mediated drug metabolism is highly variable and often based on a patient's genotype.
Genetic testing is performed to identifying patients who are poor, intermediate, extensive, or ultrarapid metabolizers of drugs metabolized by CYP1A2.
The CYP1A2 c.5090C>T polymorphism is associated with greatly reduced activity of the CYP1A2 enzyme.
Chrysothamnus nauseosus, also known as rubber rabbitbrush, gray rabbitbrush, or Chamisa, is a shrub of the genus Chrysothamnus that grows in the arid regions of western North America.
The MRPL44 gene (mitochondrial ribosomal protein L44) is located on chromosome 2q36.1.
Mammalian mitochondrial ribosomal proteins are encoded by nuclear genes and help in protein synthesis within the mitochondrion.
Mitochondrial ribosomes (mitoribosomes) consist of a small 28S subunit and a large 39S subunit.
They have an estimated 75% protein to rRNA composition compared to prokaryotic ribosomes, where this ratio is reversed.
Another difference between mammalian mitoribosomes and prokaryotic ribosomes is that the latter contain a 5S rRNA.
Among different species, the proteins comprising the mitoribosome differ greatly in sequence, and sometimes in biochemical properties, which prevents easy recognition by sequence homology.
This gene encodes a 39S subunit protein.
These are the erythrocytes shown by Fairley as being associated with Glomerular bleeding
Human upstream binding factor (hUBF) is a nucleolar protein that plays a key role in rRNA production.
The protein regulates rDNA transcription and also promotes rRNA synthesis.
DNA binding to hUBF has the potential to alter chromatin by inducing chromatin remodeling.
Autoantibodies to hUBF (anti-hUBF) are associated with various connective tissue diseases, including systemic sclerosis, Raynaud's disease, rheumatoid arthritis and systemic lupus erythematosus.
Anti-hUBF antibodies have also been associated with some malignancies.
Anti-hUBF and anti-nucleolus-organizing region (NOR) 90 antibodies were originally described as distinct entities but later were recognized as being the same.
Ticlopidine is an effective inhibitor of platelet aggregation.
The drug has been found to significantly reduce infarction size in acute myocardial infarcts and is an effective antithrombotic agent in arteriovenous fistulas, aorto-coronary bypass grafts, ischemic heart disease, venous thrombosis, and arteriosclerosis.
Palinurus is a genus of spiny lobsters in the family Palinuridae.
IgE antibodies against canary serum proteins (e199) may be detected in patients exposed to canaries.
Symptoms prompted by exposure to birds primarily involve the respiratory tract and include asthma, rhinitis, conjunctivitis and others.
A species of the genus BRUCELLA whose natural hosts are sheep and goats.
Other mammals, including humans, may be infected.
In general, these organisms tend to be more virulent for laboratory animals than BRUCELLA ABORTUS and may cause fatal infections.
Bis(2-ethylhexyl)phthalate, commonly abbreviated DEHP, is an organic compound with the formula C6H4(CO2C8H17)2.
Is is sometimes called Dioctyl phthalate and abbreviated DOP.
It is the most important "phthalate," being the diester of phthalic acid and the branched-chain 2-ethylhexanol.
This colorless viscous liquid is soluble in oil, but not in water.
It possesses good plasticizing properties.
Being produced on a massive scale by many companies, it has acquired many names and acronyms, including BEHP and di-2-ethyl hexyl phthalate.
Mal d 1 and Mal d 2 are distributed throughout the Apple pulp and peel, while Mal d 3 is restricted to the peel.
Different Apple cultivars show markedly different expression of major allergens.
Mexacarbate is a white, crystalline carbamate that is classified as a carbamate pesticide.
It is used primarily for ornamental plants, turf, and ground covers.
It is toxic if inhaled or absorbed by the skin.
Mexacarbate may be fatal if swallowed and causes irreversible damage if it comes in contact with the eyes.
Symptoms of toxicity include salivation, watery eyes, pinpoint eye pupils, blurred vision, muscle tremors, difficulty breathing, excessive sweating, abdominal cramps, nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, weakness, and headache.
Extreme exposure can lead to convulsions, unconsciousness and respiratory failure.
Mexacarbate is toxic to fish, birds, bees, and other wildlife.
A barbiturate that is effective as a hypnotic and sedative.
3-Hydroxypalmitoylcarnitine is a primary marker for Long-chain L-3-Hydroxy dehydrogenase deficiency, and Trifunctional protein deficiency.
Hepatocyte growth factor (HGF) is secreted by mesenchymal cells and acts as a cytokine, mainly on cells of epithelial origin, to regulate cell growth, motility, and morphogenesis.
It plays a key role in angiogenesis, tumorogenesis, and tissue regeneration.
HGF is secreted as an inactive polypeptide and is cleaved by serine proteases into a 69-kDa alpha-chain and 34-kDa beta-chain.
A disulfide bond between the alpha and beta chains produces the active molecule that binds to the c-Met receptor and activates a tyrosine kinase signaling cascade.
Mutations in the HGF gene are associated with autosomal recessive deafness-39, a non-syndromic hearing loss.
HGF plasmid DNA therapy targeted to cardiomyocytes is being examined as a potential treatment for coronary artery disease and for damaged cardiac tissue post-myocardial infarction.
HGF levels may also be a marker for prognosis in Chikungunya virus-induced arthralgia, where higher HGF levels correlate with higher rates of recovery.
On the other hand, HGF has also been implicated in a variety of cancers, including of lung, pancreas, thyroid, colon, and breast.
The SACS gene (sacsin molecular chaperone) is located on chromosome 13q12.
This gene encodes the sacsin protein, which includes a UbL domain at the N-terminus, a DnaJ domain, and a HEPN domain at the C-terminus.
The gene is highly expressed in the central nervous system, also found in skin, skeletal muscles and at low levels in the pancreas.
This gene includes a very large exon spanning more than 12.8 kb.
Mutations in this gene result in autosomal recessive spastic ataxia of Charlevoix-Saguenay (ARSACS), a neurodegenerative disorder characterized by early-onset cerebellar ataxia with spasticity and peripheral neuropathy.
The authors of a publication on the effects of siRNA-mediated sacsin knockdown concluded that sacsin protects against mutant ataxin-1 and suggest that "the large multi-domain sacsin protein is able to recruit Hsp70 chaperone action and has the potential to regulate the effects of other ataxia proteins" (Parfitt et al., ).
A pseudogene associated with this gene is located on chromosome 11.
Alternative splicing of this gene results in multiple transcript variants.
The principal piece of the spermatozoa is the long portion of the tail between the midpiece and the endpiece.
A fibrous sheath with tightly integrated sperm-specific glycolytic enzymes surround the principal piece.
The enzyme is critical to glycolysis, which supplies the sperm with most of the energy needed to swim.
Though the shape of the sperm head is an important factor for how fast a sperm can swim, the length of the principal piece relative to the remaining sperm is an additional factor that influences its swimming velocity.
Principal piece defects include short, multiple, broken, smooth hairpin bends, sharply angulated bends, irregular width, or coiled.
The soluble form of CD27 (sCD27) is a functional protein directly involved in T-cell activation.
Increased levels of sCD27 have been found in systemic lupus erythematosus, viral infections, and lymphoid malignancies.
It is a marker of disease burden in patients with Waldenström's macroglobulinemia.
The protein is also used as a biomarker for leptomeningeal involvement (LI) of CD27-expressing lymphoproliferations, such as B-cell non-Hodgkin's lymphoma and chronic B-lymphocytic leukemia.
Vanilloylglycine (CAS# 1212-04-0), also known as N-Vanilloylglycine, is a non-phenolic metabolite.
In human studies, vanilloylglycine has been detected in urines of individuals consuming cocoa powder dissolved in milk.
A species of flagellate parasitic protozoa.
It possesses a long undulating membrane that is bordered on its outer margin by a flagellum that becomes free posteriorly.
This organism causes infections in cows that could lead to temporary infertility or abortion.
Dichlorodiphenyldichloroethane (o,p'- DDD or Mitotane) is an isomer of 4,4′-Dichlorodiphenyldichloroethane (p,p'DDD) used broadly as a pesticide.
as well as an oral chemotherapeutic drug used to treat Cushing's syndrome and adrenal cortical carcinoma.
o,p'- DDD directly suppresses the adrenal cortex and alters the degradation of steroids.
Despite the ability of o,p'- DDD to prevent excess hormone production, its side-effects are difficult to tolerate.
The adverse reactions include the following: • gastrointestinal disorders: 80% of patients endured anorexia, nausea or vomiting, diarrhea • central nervous system: 40% of patients experience depression in the form of lethargy and somnolence (25%) and dizziness and vertigo (15%) • skin toxicity: 15% of patients transient rashes • infrequently occurring adverse effects include: visual blurring, diplopia, lens opacity, toxic retinopathy, hematuria, hemorrhagic cystitis, albuminuria, hypertension, orthostatic hypotension, flushing, generalized aching, hyperpyrexia, lowered protein bound iodine
A nonreducing disaccharide composed of glucose and fructose linked via their anomeric carbons.
It is obtained commercially from sugarcane, sugar beet (beta vulgaris), and other plants and used extensively as a food and a sweetener.
The GALC gene (galactosylceramidase) is located on chromosome 14q31.
This gene encodes a lysosomal protein which hydrolyzes the galactose ester bonds of galactosylceramide, galactosylsphingosine, lactosylceramide, and monogalactosyldiglyceride.
Mutations in this gene have been associated with Krabbe disease, also known as globoid cell leukodystrophy.
Alternate transcriptional splice variants, encoding different isoforms, have been characterized.
The PDGFRA gene (platelet-derived growth factor receptor, alpha polypeptide) is located on chromosome 4q12.
Over 400 unique mutations have been found in the PDGFRA gene.
This gene encodes a cell surface tyrosine kinase receptor for members of the platelet-derived growth factor family.
These growth factors are mitogens for cells of mesenchymal origin.
The identity of the growth factor bound to a receptor monomer determines whether the functional receptor is a homodimer or a heterodimer, composed of both platelet-derived growth factor receptor alpha and beta polypeptides.
Studies suggest that this gene plays a role in organ development, wound healing, and tumor progression.
Mutations in this gene have been associated with idiopathic hypereosinophilic syndrome, somatic and familial gastrointestinal stromal tumors, and a variety of other cancers.
Lymphocytes with IgG surface Ag
The FGFR2 gene (fibroblast growth factor receptor 2) is located on chromosome 10q26.
The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the fibroblast growth factor receptor family, where amino acid sequence is highly conserved between members and throughout evolution.
FGFR family members differ from one another in their ligand affinities and tissue distribution.
A full-length representative protein consists of an extracellular region, composed of three immunoglobulin-like domains, a single hydrophobic membrane-spanning segment and a cytoplasmic tyrosine kinase domain.
The extracellular portion of the protein interacts with fibroblast growth factors, setting in motion a cascade of downstream signals, ultimately influencing mitogenesis and differentiation.
This particular family member is a high-affinity receptor for acidic, basic and/or keratinocyte growth factor, depending on the isoform.
Mutations in this gene are associated with Crouzon syndrome, Pfeiffer syndrome, Craniosynostosis, Apert syndrome, Jackson-Weiss syndrome, Beare-Stevenson cutis gyrata syndrome, Saethre-Chotzen syndrome, and syndromic craniosynostosis.
Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been noted for this gene.
A species of thermophilic CAMPYLOBACTER found in healthy seagulls and causing ENTERITIS in humans.
Congenital disorders of glycosylation (CDG) are caused by a defect in glycosylation, primarily of proteins and lipids.
Protein glycosylation naturally occurs in two ways, either through an N-linkage to the amide group of asparagine or an O-linkage to the hydroxyl group of serine or threonine.
The majority of known CDG disorders involve protein N-glycosylation, followed by protein O-glycosylation.
Lipid glycosylation disorders have only recently begun to be identified.
The primary screening test for N-glycosylation disorders is serum carbohydrate deficient transferrin analysis, and for O-glycosylation disorders is apolipoprotein CIII analysis.
The symptoms, presentation, and prognosis for different CDGs varies widely.
However, neurological involvement, including seizures, hypotonia, and cognitive impairment, is common, as are bleeding or clotting disorders, feeding disorders leading to failure to thrive, and eye disorders including strabismus and retinal disease.
Patients with O- and lipid glycosylation disorders more commonly have dysmorphic features compared to those who have disorders of N-glycosylation.
Bacillus cereus (B cereus) is a rod-shaped, endospore-forming aerobic or facultatively anaerobic, Gram-positive bacteria and is associated with two types of food poisoning: rapid onset with nausea and vomiting, and slower onset, primarily diarrheal illness.
B cereus is also a less common cause of bacteremia/septicemia, endocarditis, meningitis, and infections of wounds, the ears, eyes, respiratory tract, and urinary tract.
Treatment is with non-beta-lactam antibiotics.
B cereus spores are resistant to heat, cold, radiation, desiccation, and disinfectants.
Control is by good hygiene and adequate cooking and refrigeration of food.
Interleukin-4, abbreviated IL-4, is a cytokine that induces differentiation of naive helper T cells (Th0 cells) to Th2 cells.
Upon activation by IL-4, Th2 cells subsequently produce additional IL-4.
The cell that initially produces IL-4, thus inducing Th0 differentiation, has not been identified, but recent studies suggest that basophils may be the effector cell.
It has many biological roles, including the stimulation of activated B-cell and T-cell proliferation, and the differentiation of CD4+ T-cells into Th2 cells.
It is a key regulator in humoral and adaptive immunity.
IL-4 induces B-cell class switching to IgE, and up-regulates MHC class II production.
Overproduction of IL-4 is associated with allergies.
APOB, LDLR and PCSK9 are three genes associated with familial hypercholesterolemia (FH).
FH associated with APOB and LDLR mutations is more common than that associated with PCSK9.
APOB encodes apolipoprotein B, a primary protein component of low-density lipoprotein (LDL), very low-density lipoprotein (VLDL) and chylomicrons.
Mutations in the APOB gene affect the region of apolipoprotein B that binds to the LDL receptor, which results in decreased receptor binding, leading to increased circulating levels of LDL.
LDLR encodes the LDL cell membrane receptor, which binds LDL and transports it into the cell.
LDLR mutations result in defective binding of LDL to the LDL receptor, resulting in increased circulating levels of LDL.
PCSK9 encodes proprotein convertase subtilisin/kexin type 9, an enzyme which binds to several different LDL, VLDL and apolipoprotein receptors and promotes their degradation.
Mutations in PCSK9 result in increased enzyme activity, which leads to increased receptor degradation and decreased availability of receptors to bind and transport lipids into the cell.
The end result is an increase in circulating lipid levels.
CD2 is CD58 receptor and identifies T cells and NK subsets.
Buckwheat is grown almost worldwide, but is especially common in China and Iraq.
Its original habitat is obscure.
It is a member of the Polygonaceae group of weeds.
In China another type of Buckwheat, Tartary buckwheat (Fagopyrum tartaricum) is grown and consumed (1).
Buckwheat is consumed mainly in Asian countries, in particular in Japan, where it is a major food allergen due to the popularity of soba (Buckwheat noodles).
POL3RK gene encodes a small essential subunit (known as RP11) of RNA polymerase III, which synthesizes small RNAs such as 5S rRNA and tRNAs.
The POL3RK protein plays a key role in sensing and reducing infection by intracellular bacteria and DNA viruses.
It acts as a sensor involved in innate immune response.
The presence of antibodies directed against POL3RK (anti-Polymerase, DNA-directed) are thought to be associated with systemic sclerosis (SSc), a connective tissue disease that affects the skin and internal organs.
14-3-3 proteins are a family of conserved regulatory molecules expressed in all eukaryotic cells.
14-3-3 proteins have the ability to bind a multitude of functionally diverse signaling proteins, including kinases, phosphatases, and transmembrane receptors.
More than 100 signaling proteins have been reported as 14-3-3 ligands.
The name 14-3-3 refers to the particular elution and migration pattern of these proteins on DEAE-cellulose chromatography and starch-gel electrophoresis.
The 14-3-3 proteins eluted in the 14th fraction of bovine brain homogenate and were found on positions 3.3 of subsequent electrophoresis by Moore and Perez.
Elevated amounts of 14-3-3 proteins are found in the cerebrospinal fluid of patients with Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease.
Zinc bacitracin is an antibiotic added as a supplement to animal feed to improve feed efficiency and promote growth.
Neisseria meningitides (Nm) is a species of gram-negative, aerobic bacteria.
It is a commensal and pathogen only of humans, and can be carried asymptomatically in the nasopharynx.
When found in cerebrospinal fluid it is the causative agent of cerebrospinal meningitis (meningitis, meningococcal).
Nm can also be found in venereal discharges and blood.
At least 13 serogroups have been described based on antigenic differences in the capsular polysaccharides; the ones causing most meningitis infections being A, B, C, Y, and W-135.
Outbreaks caused by serogroup X meningococci have also been reported.
Each serogroup can be further classified by serotype, serosubtype, and immunotype.
The two targets most frequently used in real-time PCR assays to identify Nm are the capsule transport gene (ctrA) and the Cu-An superoxide dismutase gene (sodC).
sodC is found only in Nm and not in other species of Neisseria.
sodC is highly sensitive and specific for the detection of Nm regardless of whether capsule genes are present or absent.
ctrA is likely the target gene most often used to identify Nm, but because it is prone to rearrangement it does not detect roughly 16% of patients with Nm.
Direct or indirect contact with bird allergens may cause sensitisation.
Bird allergens may be major components of house dust.
Duck is the common name for wild and domestic waterfowl of the family Anatidae, which also includes Geese and Swans.
It is the largest and most diverse group of waterfowl, and is hunted and bred for its meat, eggs, and feathers.
Stigmastanol (sitostanol) is a phytosterol found in a variety of plant sources.
Similar to sterol esters and stanol esters, stigmasterol inhibits the absorption of cholesterol from the diet.
Animal studies suggest that it also inhibits biosynthesis of cholesterol in the liver.
A synthetic broad-spectrum fluoroquinolone antibacterial agent active against most gram-negative and gram-positive bacteria.
Benzthiazide (BAN/INN, also known as benzothiazide; trade names Aquatag, Dihydrex, Diucen, Edemax, Exna, Foven and others) is a thiazide diuretic used in the treatment of high blood pressure and edema.
It is no longer available in the United States.
Halazepam is a benzodiazepine derivative and is marketed under the brand names Alapryl and Pacinone.
It possesses anxiolytic, anticonvulsant, sedative and skeletal muscle relaxant properties.
It is a trifluoroethyl derivative of nordazepam.
While its structure may be similar to chlordiazepoxide and diazepam, it has both less toxicity and less tendency to cause paradoxical hostility and aggression than either of them.
Halazepam has active benzodiazepine metabolites
Brachyspira pilosicoli is an intestinal spirochete that infects the large intestine of pigs and causes porcine intestinal spirochetosis.
It also infects humans, non-human primates, dogs, several species of birds, and mice, with mice being a probable reservoir of infection for swine.
B. pilosicoli can be grown on modified BJ culture medium that lacks rifampicin and spiramycin, and can be differentiated from other Brachyspira species using biochemical testing.
Polymerase chain reaction (PCR) testing is required to definitively identify B. pilosicoli.
B. pilosicoli is transmitted by the fecal-oral oral route, and the incubation period of B. piosicoli is 3-16 days.
Symptoms of infection are diarrhea and poor growth for 2-6 weeks.
It is nonfatal in swine.
To definitively diagnose intestinal spirochetosis, the typical colonic leasion must be observed and infection by B. pilosicoli must be confirmed.
Infection of swine with B. pilosicoli occurs in most countries with swine-producing industries.
Mustards were originally identified as members of a small but widespread genus of European and Asiatic herbs named Sinapis, but they are now generally included in the Cabbage genus, Brassica.
All of the Mustard varieties come from species of annually flowering bushes or small trees, which are often experienced as weeds or even destructive pests.
The leaves, Mustard greens, are used as a vegetable.
If leaves are not harvested, strange seed stalks are sent up by the plants, and the condiment is made from the seeds.
Mustard may commonly induce symptoms of food allergy, including severe anaphylactic reactions, in sensitised individuals, including infants and children.
An antibiotic derived from penicillin similar to CARBENICILLIN in action.
The door-to-balloon time (D2B) is the interval between arrival at the hospital and time of first balloon inflation during primary percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI).
Shorter D2B times are associated with improved outcomes, and according to practice guidelines, the D2B time should not be greater than 90 minutes.
Blue paloverde is a spiny, small, deciduous tree with multiple stems, distributed throughout the Sonora Desert in the USA.
Its range extends from central and southwestern Arizona into southeastern California.
Anecdotal evidence suggests that asthma, allergic rhinitis and allergic conjunctivitis are possible following exposure to pollen from this tree.
A strongly basic peptide, antibiotic complex from several strains of Streptomyces.
It is allergenic and toxic to kidneys and the labyrinth.
Viomycin is used in tuberculosis as several different salts and in combination with other agents.
The Emergency Severity Index© Version 4 (ESI) is an emergency department (ED) triage tool.
The ESI© triage algorithm yields rapid, reproducible, and clinically relevant stratification of patients into five groups, from level 1 (most urgent) to level 5 (least urgent).
The ESI provides a method for categorizing ED patients by both acuity and resource needs.
Pyrovalerone (Centroton, Thymergix) is a psychoactive drug with stimulant effects via acting as a norepinephrine-dopamine reuptake inhibitor (NDRI), and is used for the clinical treatment of chronic fatigue or lethargy and as an anorectic or appetite suppressant for weight loss purposes.
Side effects of pyrovalerone include anorexia or loss of appetite, anxiety, fragmented sleep or insomnia, and trembling, shaking, or muscle tremors.
Withdrawal following abuse upon discontinuation often results in depression.
The methyl ester of methacrylic acid.
It polymerizes easily to form POLYMETHYL METHACRYLATE.
It is used as a bone cement.
Dietary fiber, also known as roughage or bulk, includes the parts of plant foods the body can't digest or absorb.
Fiber isn't digested but instead it passes relatively intact through the stomach, small intestine, colon, and out of the body.
Fiber is commonly classified as soluble, which dissolves in water, or insoluble, which doesn't dissolve.
Total fiber includes both.
Most plant-based foods, such as oatmeal and beans, contain both soluble and insoluble fiber.
A high-fiber diet has many benefits which include: 1) helping to maintain bowel health, 2) lowering cholesterol, 3) helping control blood sugar levels, and 4) aiding in achieving healthy weight.
Lysine is an essential basic amino acid that plays a major role in calcium absorption and the production of hormones, enzymes, and antibodies.
Lack of lysine can result in niacin deficiency and cause the pellagra.
Other diseases associated with lysine include hyperlysinemia, lysine intolerance, carbamoyl phosphate synthetase deficiency, and saccharopinuria (saccharopine is an intermediate in the metabolism of lysine).
Interleukin 7 (IL7) is a protein that is encoded by the IL7 gene in humans.
a hematopoietic growth factor secreted by stromal cells in the red marrow and thymus.
It is also produced by keratinocytes, dendritic cells, neurons and endothelial cells, but is not produced by lymphocytes.
IL-7 stimulates the differentiation of multipotent (pluripotent) hematopoietic stem cells into lymphoid progenitor cells (as opposed to myeloid progenitor cells where differentiation is stimulated by IL-3).
It also stimulates proliferation of all cells in the lymphoid lineage (B cells, T cells and NK cells).
It is important for proliferation during certain stages of B-cell maturation, T and NK cell survival, development and homeostasis.
IL-7 is a cytokine important for B and T cell development.
This cytokine and the hepatocyte growth factor (HGF) form a heterodimer that functions as a pre-pro-B cell growth-stimulating factor.
This cytokine is found to be a cofactor for V(D)J rearrangement of the T cell receptor beta (TCRB) during early T cell development.
This cytokine can be produced locally by intestinal epithelial and epithelial goblet cells, and may serve as a regulatory factor for intestinal mucosal lymphocytes.
Knockout studies in mice suggested that this cytokine plays an essential role in lymphoid cell survival.
IL-7 receptor knockout mice exhibit thymic atrophy, arrest of T-cell development at the double positive stage, and severe lymphopenia.
Administration of IL-7 to mice results in an increase in thymic migrants, increases in B and T cells, and increased recovery of T cells after cyclophosphamide administration or after bone marrow transplantation.
Il-7 promotes hematological malignacies (acute lymphoblastic leukemia, T cell lymphoma).
Artemisia vulgaris (Mugwort or Common Mugwort) is one of several species in the genus Artemisia with names containing mugwort.
It is also occasionally known as Felon Herb, St. John's Plant, Chrysanthemum Weed, Wild Wormwood, and Mogusa in Japan.
It is native to temperate Europe, Asia and northern Africa, but is also present in North America where it is an invasive weed.
It is a very common plant growing on nitrogenous soils, like weedy and uncultivated areas, such as waste places and roadsides.
It is a tall herbaceous perennial plant growing 1-2 m (rarely 2.5 m) tall, with a woody root.
The leaves are 5-20 cm long, dark green, pinnate, with dense white tomentose hairs on the underside.
The erect stem often has a red-purplish tinge.
The rather small flowers (5 mm long) are radially symmetrical with many yellow or dark red petals.
The narrow and numerous capitula (flower heads) spread out in racemose panicles.
It flowers from July to September.
Phendimetrazine (Bontril®) is a weight loss medication.
Phendimetrazine is chemically related to amphetamines and is a Schedule III drug under the Convention on Psychotropic Substances.
In the United States, phendimetrazine is a Schedule III controlled substance under the Uniform Controlled Substances Act of 1970.
Phendimetrazine is used clinically in the form of phendimetrazine tartrate.
Approximately 30% of a given dose of phendimetrazine is metabolized into phenmetrazine, which may account for part of its anorectic effect, and probably also influences abuse potential; individuals who metabolise a greater proportion of phendimetrazine into phenmetrazine are more likely to develop problems with dependence and addiction.
N,N-Dimethyltryptamine (DMT) is a naturally occurring hallucinogenic drug of the tryptamine family.
This drug is found not only in many plants, but also in trace amounts in the human body, where its natural function remains undetermined.
Structurally, it is analogous to the neurotransmitter serotonin (5-HT) and other hallucinogenic tryptamines such as 5-MeO-DMT, bufotenin (5-OH-DMT), and psilocin (4-HO-DMT).
DMT is created in small amounts by the human body during normal metabolism by the enzyme tryptamine-N-methyltransferase.
Many cultures, indigenous and modern, ingest DMT as a psychedelic, in either extracted or synthesized forms
American Licorice (Glycyrrhiza lepidota) is a species of Glycyrrhiza native to most of North America, from central Canada south through the United States to California, Texas and Virginia, but absent from the southeastern states.
It is also sometimes known in the United States as "wild licorice", to distinguish it from the related European Liquorice (Glycyrrhiza glabra) which is occasionally cultivated
Strabismus is misalignment of the eyes which can yield non-aligned visual images between the right and left eyes.
The brain can permanently suppress one of these images, leading to loss of sight in one eye, which is called amblyopia.
The BBS10 gene (Bardet-Biedl syndrome 10) is located on chromosome 12q21.2.
This gene is a member of the Bardet-Biedl syndrome (BBS) gene family.
Bardet-Biedl syndrome is an autosomal recessive disorder characterized by progressive retinal degeneration, obesity, polydactyly, renal malformation and mental retardation.
The proteins encoded by BBS gene family members are structurally diverse and the similar phenotypes exhibited by mutations in BBS gene family members are likely due to their shared roles in cilia formation and function.
Many BBS proteins localize to the basal bodies, ciliary axonemes, and pericentriolar regions of cells.
BBS proteins may also be involved in intracellular trafficking via microtubule-related transport.
The protein encoded by this gene is likely not a ciliary protein but rather has distant sequence homology to type II chaperonins.
As a molecular chaperone, this protein may affect the folding or stability of other ciliary or basal body proteins.
Inhibition of this protein's expression impairs ciliogenesis in preadipocytes.
Mutations in this gene cause Bardet-Biedl syndrome type 10.
The angle between the Sella-Nasion plane and the Palatal plane (ANS-PNS)
Low ionized calcium levels are common in critically ill patients with sepsis, renal failure, cardiac failure, pulmonary failure, post-surgery or burns.
Monitoring of ionized calcium is particularly important in the unconscious or anesthetized patient, in whom unrecognized changes in calcium homeostasis may result in serious cardiovascular dysfunction with little of no prior warning signs.
Decreased ionized calcium levels between 3 and 4 mg/dL are usually well tolerated, but the risk of cardiac arrest increases when ionized calcium levels approach 2.5 mg/dL. An ionized calcium level below 2.8 mg/dL is a reasonable threshold to begin calcium replacement therapy.
Patients with hypotension or low cardiac output may require calcium replacement when ionized calcium falls below 3.2 to 3.6 mg/dL. Ionized calcium levels should be monitored during replacement therapy.
A cyanide is any chemical compound that contains the cyano group -CN, with the carbon atom triple-bonded to the nitrogen atom.
The CN group can be found in many kinds of compounds.
Some are gases, others are solids or liquids.
Some are salt-like, some covalent.
Some are molecular, some ionic, and many are polymeric.
Those that can release the cyanide ion CNˆ' are highly toxic.
The cyanide anion is an inhibitor of the enzyme cytochrome c oxidase (also known as aa3) in the fourth complex of the electron transport chain (found in the membrane of the mitochondria of eukaryotic cells).
It attaches to the iron within this protein.
The binding of cyanide to this cytochrome prevents transport of electrons from cytochrome c oxidase to oxygen.
As a result, the electron transport chain is disrupted, meaning that the cell can no longer aerobically produce ATP for energy.
Tissues that depend highly on aerobic respiration, such as the central nervous system and the heart, are particularly affected.
This is an example of histotoxic hypoxia.
Antibiotic complex obtained from Streptomyces bambergiensis containing mainly Moenomycins A and C.
They are used as feed additives and growth promoters for poultry, swine, and cattle.
Cell-free DNA (cfDNA) is DNA that circulates in the plasma, and in pregnant women, cfDNA is both maternal and fetal in origin.
Fetal cfDNA can be detected in maternal plasma as early as 7 weeks' gestation and the proportion of fetal cfDNA increases during the pregnancy.
Fetal cfDNA is continuously added to maternal circulation and is cleared within hours.
Certain noninvasive prenatal screening tests analyze maternal cfDNA to determine the fetal risk for a variety of genetic disorders.
The proportion of cfDNA, calculated as fetal cfDNA/total cfDNA and also known as fetal fraction, is one of the reported measures, and in general, samples with a higher fetal fraction yield more sensitive results than those with lower fetal fraction.
Barbiturates were first developed in 1864 by Adolf von Baeyer and were widely distributed by the Farbwerke Fr Bayer and Co in 1904.
Barbiturates offered new treatment to patients with psychiatric and neurological disorders profoundly improving their prognoses.
Barbiturates were also used to treat sleep disorders and were the first drugs to effectively treat epileptic seizures.
Due to safety concerns related to drug dependence and overdose and new safer psychoactive medications barbiturate use sharply declined in the 1950s.
Amobarbital is a barbiturate that is used as a hypnotic and sedative.
Physical effects include central nervous system depression and dependence when dosage levels are high.
Garden sage originates from Asia Minor, North Africa, Spain and the Balkans, and grows wild along the Mediterranean coast.
Anecdotal evidence suggests that sage may induce symptoms of food allergy in sensitised individuals; however, few studies have been reported to date.
It is possible that the allergy occurs more frequently than has been reported.
Skin contact with sage may result in contact dermatitis.
Broad- spectrum beta-lactam antibiotic similar in structure to the CEPHALOSPORINS except for the substitution of an oxaazabicyclo moiety for the thiaazabicyclo moiety of certain CEPHALOSPORINS.
It has been proposed especially for the meningitides because it passes the blood-brain barrier and for anaerobic infections.
Methylmalonyl Coenzyme A mutase, also known as MCM is an enzyme that catalyzes the isomerization of methylmalonyl-CoA to succinyl-CoA and it is involved in key metabolic pathways.
It requires a vitamin B12-derived prosthetic group, adenosylcobalamin, to function.
A deficiency of this enzyme is responsible for an inherited disorder of metabolism, Methylmalonyl-CoA mutase deficiency, which is one of the causes of methylmalonic acidemia.
A radioactive element of the actinide series of metals.
It has an atomic symbol Th, atomic number 90, and atomic weight 232.04.
It is used as fuel in nuclear reactors to produce fissionable uranium isotopes.
Because of its radioopacity, various thorium compounds are used to facilitate visualization in roentgenography.
The NSD1 gene (nuclear receptor binding SET domain protein 1) is located on chromosome 5q35.
This gene encodes a protein containing a SET domain, 2 LXXLL motifs, 3 nuclear translocation signals (NLSs), 4 plant homeodomain (PHD) finger regions, and a proline-rich region.
The encoded protein enhances androgen receptor (AR) transactivation, and this enhancement can be increased further in the presence of other androgen receptor associated coregulators.
This protein may act as a nucleus-localized, basic transcriptional factor and also as a bifunctional transcriptional regulator.
Mutations of this gene have been associated with Sotos syndrome and Weaver syndrome.
One version of childhood acute myeloid leukemia is the result of a cryptic translocation with the breakpoints occurring within nuclear receptor-binding Su-var, enhancer of zeste, and trithorax domain protein 1 on chromosome 5 and nucleoporin, 98-kd on chromosome 11.
Two transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms have been identified for this gene.
An enzyme that catalyzes the conversion of D-glucose 6-phosphate and water to D-glucose and orthophosphate. .
Serratia species are gram-negative pathogens belonging to the Enterobacteriaceae family.
Over 14 species of Serratia have been identified with S. marcescens being the most common clinical isolate.
In the past, it was estimated that only 1-2% of hospital acquired infections, typically of the respiratory tract, urinary tract, surgical wounds or soft tissues, were due to Serratia marcescens.
Results from a recent surveillance program in the US and Europe found that Serratia species were the cause of about 6.5% of all Gram-negative infections in intensive care units (ICUs) and approximately 3.5% in other settings.
Diagnosis of Serratia species infections is made through standard laboratory testing of blood, urine, pus and other bodily fluids.
Severe infections, including meningitis and sepsis, have a high mortality rate.
The TARDBP gene is located on chromosome 1p36.22.
It encodes the 43-kD TAR DNA-binding protein, which was originally identified as a transcriptional repressor that binds to TAR DNA of human immunodeficiency virus type 1.
It is also involved in regulation of gene expression and splicing.
Allelic variants of TARDBP are the cause of Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis 10 phenotype, with or without frontotemporal dementia.
A gamma-aminobutyric acid derivative that is a specific agonist at GABA-B receptors (receptors, GABA-B).
It is used in the treatment of spasticity, especially that due to spinal cord damage.
Its therapeutic effects result from actions at spinal and supraspinal sites, generally the reduction of excitatory transmission.
There are three distinct chemical compounds which are dichlorobenzenes: 1,2-Dichlorobenzene or ortho-dichlorobenzene; 1,3-Dichlorobenzene or meta-dichlorobenzene; 1,4-Dichlorobenzene or para-dichlorobenzene.
A carbamate derivative used as an alcohol deterrent.
It is a relatively nontoxic substance when administered alone, but markedly alters the intermediary metabolism of alcohol.
When alcohol is ingested after administration of disulfiram, blood acetaldehyde concentrations are increased, followed by flushing, systemic vasodilation, respiratory difficulties, nausea, hypotension, and other symptoms (acetaldehyde syndrome).
It acts by inhibiting aldehyde dehydrogenase.
1,2-Dimethylbenzene (o-Xylene) is an aromatic hydrocarbon, based on benzene with two methyl substituents bonded to adjacent carbon atoms in the aromatic ring (the ortho configuration).
It is a constitutional isomer of m-xylene and p-xylene.
O-Xylene is largely used in the production of phthalic anhydride, and is generally extracted by distillation from a mixed xylene stream in a plant primarily designed for p-xylene production.
The sensitivity threshold is the sensitivity at which the pacemaker begins to sense the patient's inherent cardiac electrical activity.
The sensitivity setting is typically set higher at a higher sensitivity (a lower value in mV) than the sensitity threshold to assure that the electrical activity is sensed.
Sulfonamide antimicrobials, such as sulfamethazine (or sulfadimidine) and sulfathiazole, are synthetic antimicrobial agents that contain the sulfonamide group.
Sulfonamides inhibit the enzymatic conversion of pteridine and p-aminobenzoic acid (PABA) to dihydropteroic acid by competing with PABA for the bacterial enzyme dihydropteroate synthase, an enzyme involved in folate synthesis.
They are used to treat bacterial, mycobacterial and protozoal infections.
Adverse reactions to sulfonamides include fever, acute hemolytic anemia, hematuria, and hepatic necrosis.
Chylomicrons, also known as ultra low-density lipoproteins (ULDL), are lipoproteins made by intestinal cells that carry dietary lipids through the lymph system after they have been digested and absorbed into the lymphatic system.
They consist of mostly triglycerides as well as phospholipids, cholesterol, and proteins.
Chylomicrons are expected to be absent in body fluids.
Semen begins to liquefy soon after ejaculation, and completely within 15-60 minutes.
However, sometimes there are jelly-like granules remaining known as gelatinous bodies which do not liquefy.
They are not thought to have any clinical significance.
Disulfoton is a selective, systemic organophosphate insecticide and acaricide.
It is notably toxic to sucking insects, aphids, leafhoppers, thrips, beet flies, spider mites, and coffee leaf miners.
The cultivated plants to which disulfoton is applied include cotton, tobacco, sugar beets, cole crops, peanuts, wheat, ornamental plants, cereal grains, and potatoes.
Disulfoton is extremely toxic to mammals if it is inhaled, ingested or absorbed through the skin.
Early symptoms of exposure to disulfoton include blurred vision, fatigue, headache, dizziness, sweating, tearing, and salivation.
Symptoms of high dose exposure include defecation, urination, fluid accumulation in the lungs, convulsions, and coma.
If the exposure level is high enough, death due to respiratory failure and/or constriction of the trachea can result.
Disulfoton is dangerously toxic to cold and warm fish, crab, shrimp, birds, and other wildlife.
Disulfoton is not classified as a carcinogen.
The ACE gene (angiotensin I converting enzyme) is located on chromosome 17q23.3.
This gene encodes an enzyme involved in catalyzing the conversion of angiotensin I into a physiologically active peptide angiotensin II.
Angiotensin II is a potent vasopressor and aldosterone-stimulating peptide that controls blood pressure and fluid-electrolyte balance.
This enzyme plays a key role in the renin-angiotensin system.
Many studies have associated the presence or absence of a 287 bp Alu repeat element in this gene with the levels of circulating enzyme or cardiovascular pathophysiologies.
Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been identified, and two most abundant spliced variants encode the somatic form and the testicular form, respectively, that are equally active.
The INR is specifically intented for evaluating protime results on patients stabilized on long term oral anticoagulant therapy.
The INR is not appropriate to evalulate hemostatic function in patients with liver disease, for screening for hereditary factor deficiencies or acquired vitamin K deficiencies, or for routine preoperative screening; this should be evaluated on the normal range in seconds.
INR is calculated by the equation, INR = (PTR) raised to the power of ISI, where ISI = International Sensitivity Index (assigned to each reagent thromboplastin).
PTR = prothrombin time ratio (pat PT/pop mean PT).
Computation of the INR of specific thromboplastin reagent should allow for uniformity in prothrombin time testing regardless of the reagent system or instrumentation used.
A furancarbonitrile that is one of the SEROTONIN UPTAKE INHIBITORS used as an antidepressant.
The drug is also effective in reducing ethanol uptake in alcoholics and is used in depressed patients who also suffer from tardive dyskinesia in preference to tricyclic antidepressants, which aggravate this condition.
Low density lipoprotein-related protein 1 (alpha-2-macroglobulin receptor), also known as LRP1 or CD91, is a protein forming a receptor found in the plasma membrane of human cells involved in receptor-mediated endocytosis.
The RRM2B (ribonucleotide reductase regulatory TP53 inducible subunit M2B) gene is located on chromosome 8 at position q22.3.
This gene encodes the small subunit of a p53-inducible ribonucleotide reductase.
This heterotetrameric enzyme catalyzes the conversion of ribonucleoside diphosphates to deoxyribonucleoside diphosphates.
The product of this reaction is necessary for DNA synthesis.
Mutations in this gene have been associated with autosomal recessive mitochondrial DNA depletion syndrome, autosomal dominant progressive external ophthalmoplegia-5, and mitochondrial neurogastrointestinal encephalopathy.
Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been described.
Barium, a soft silvery metallic alkaline earth metal, reacts with water and carbon dioxide and is not found as a free element.
The most common naturally occurring minerals are the very insoluble barium sulfate, BaSO4 (barite), and barium carbonate, BaCO3 (witherite).
The metal is used to scavenge air in vacuum tubes, as a component of high-temperature superconductors and electroceramics, and is added to steel and cast iron.
Water-soluble barium compounds are poisonous.
At low doses, barium ions act as a muscle stimulant, whereas higher doses affect the nervous system, causing cardiac irregularities, tremors, weakness, anxiety, dyspnea and paralysis.
Barium ions also target the eyes, immune system, heart, respiratory system, and skin, and may cause blindness and sensitization.
Temperature difference between two body sites or body site and reference temperature.
A gram-negative, rod-shaped to coccoid bacterium.
It is the etiologic agent of SCRUB TYPHUS in humans and is transmitted by mites from rodent reservoirs.
Neoplasia (new growth in Greek) is the abnormal proliferation of cells, resulting in a structure known as a neoplasm.
The growth of this clone of cells exceeds, and is uncoordinated with, that of the normal tissues around it.
It usually causes a lump or tumor.
Neoplasms may be benign, pre-malignant or malignant.
A Barr body is the inactive X chromosome in a female somatic cell, or the inactive Z in a male, rendered inactive in a process called lyonization, in those species (including humans) in which sex is determined by the presence of the Y or W chromosome rather than the diploidy of the X or Z.
The Lyon hypothesis states that in cells with multiple X chromosomes, all but one are inactivated during mammalian embryogenesis.
This happens early in embryonic development at random in mammals, except in marsupials and in some extra-embryonic tissues of some placental mammals, in which the father's X chromosome is always deactivated.
Barr bodies are named after their discoverer, Murray Barr.
In men and women with more than one X chromosome, the number of Barr bodies visible at interphase is always one less than the total number of X chromosomes.
For example, men with a 47,XXY karyotype have a single Barr body, whereas women with a 47,XXX karyotype have two Barr bodies.
Barr bodies can be seen on the nucleus of neutrophils.
Allo-Pregnanediolone (allo-PDL, Mw=334,5, systematic name: 5-alpha-pregnan-3-alpha,17-alpha-diol-20-one) may be found in steroid analysis in urine and, among other steroids, is an important marker in the urinary steroid excretion profile for the occurrence of an adrenal 21-hydroxylase-deficiency.
Its concentration is also an indication for the effectiveness of medication, such as cortisol supplementation, against this disease.
Megakaryoblasts are precursors to megakaryocytes, the cells that release platelets.
Acute megakaryoblastic leukemia affects both children and adults.
In children, it is more common in the 1 to 3 year-old age group, and especially in children with Down syndrome .
The CNBP (CCHC-type zinc finger, nucleic acid binding protein) gene is located on chromosome 3q21.
This gene encodes a nucleic-acid binding protein with seven zinc-finger domains.
The protein has a preference for binding single stranded DNA and RNA.
The protein functions in cap-independent translation of ornithine decarboxylase mRNA, and may also function in sterol-mediated transcriptional regulation.
A CCTG expansion in the first intron of this gene results in myotonic dystrophy type 2.
Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
Benzaldehyde (C6H5CHO) is an organic compound consisting of a benzene ring with a formyl substituent.
It is the simplest aromatic aldehyde and one of the most industrially useful.
This colorless liquid has a characteristic pleasant almond-like odor.
In fact, benzaldehyde is the primary component of bitter almond oil and can be extracted from a number of other natural sources
Yersinia sp are Gram-negative oval or rod-shaped bacteria of the family Enterobacteriaceae.
They are facultative anaerobes.
While some species are motile below 37°C, all Yersinia species are nonmotile at 37°C and above.
Most yersiniosis in humans in the United States is caused by Y. enterocolitica which most commonly manifests as fever, abdominal pain and bloody diarrhea in young children.
In older children and adults it is sometimes confused with appendicitis as right-sided abdominal pain and fever are its primary symptoms.
Contaminated food, especially raw or undercooked pork products, is the most frequent source of infection; unpasteurized milk and untreated water are also common sources.
Only about one culture-confirmed Y. enterocolitica infection per 100,000 persons occurs annually in the U. S. Y. pestis was the pathogenic agent of the plague; rodents are its primary hosts and it is is transmitted to human through flea bites.
Other Yersinia organisms have also been identified.
The CHD7 gene (chromodomain helicase DNA binding protein 7) is located on chromosome 8q12.2.
This gene encodes a protein that contains several helicase family domains.
Mutations in this gene have been found in some patients with the CHARGE syndrome.
Retinyl palmitate (RP) is an ester of retinol and palmitic acid.
RP is stored in hepatic stellate cells as lipid droplets in their cytoplasm.
The stored RP comprises 80% of vitamin A in the whole body.
Vitamin A is important for normal vision, the immune system, and it helps the heart, lungs, kidneys, and other organs work properly.
It can be found in meat, poultry, fish and dairy products.
The U.S. Food and Drug Administration recommends a daily intake of 5,000 international units (IUs) for everyone over four years old.
Vitamin A can be supplemented orally in the form of vitamin pills or by injection.
Vitamin A testing helps diagnose vitamin A deficiency in patients reporting night blindness, dry eyes, skin and hair, skin thickening, or greyish spots on the eye, or with anemia or diseases impairing nutritional absorption such as Celiac disease, irritable bowel syndrome or Crohns disease.
Vitamin A deficiencies are rare in the US.
Testing may also be used to detect toxic overdose of vitamin A in patients reporting symptoms including headache, nausea, blurred vision, fatigue, dizziness, joint or muscle pain, hair loss and inflammation of the tongue.
An organic acid is an organic compound with acidic properties.
The most common organic acids are the carboxylic acids whose acidity is associated with their carboxyl group -COOH.
Sulfonic acids, containing the group OSO3 H, are relatively stronger acids.
Other groups can also confer acidity, usually weakly: hydroxyl group -OH, -SH, enol group,and the phenol group.
An organic acid is any of various acids containing one or more carboncontaining radicals, such as acetic or formic acid, used in oil and gas well-stimulation treatments.
Inhibited organic acids are much less reactive with metals than are HCl or mixtures of HCl and HF.
For this very reason, organic acids are used at high bottomhole temperatures or when long contact times between acid and pipe are needed.
The relative stability of the conjucate base of the acid determines its acidity.
Gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA), a primary inhibitory neurotransmitter in the brain, is synthesized from glutamate by the pyridoxine dependent enzyme glutamic acid decarboxylase (GAD).
The first step in the catabolism of GABA involves degradation to succinic semialdehyde in a reaction catalyzed by GABA-transaminase (GABA-T).
Succinic acid is then converted to succinic semialdehyde by the enzyme succinic semialdehyde dehydrogenase (SSADH).
GABA is also present in non-neuronal tissues and may exist in peripheral and central tissues in the form of a dipeptide with histidine, as a compound known as homocarnosine.
Several inherited disorders of GABA metabolism have been identified; these are SSADH deficiency, GABA-T deficiency and homocarnosinosis.
The later two are extremely rare and require CSF determination of both free and total GABA.
The clinical presentation of these cases may vary considerably and include psychomotor retardation, convulsions, ataxia, hypotonia, hyperflexia and delayed speech development.
In addition an autosomal recessive disorder has been characterized in a group of patients with pyridoxine-dependent seizures.
In these cases the presumed abnormality is due to reduced binding of pyridoxal-5-phosphate to GAD.
Elevation of CSF free and total GABA are characteristic of GABA-T and SSADH deficiency, where-as low CSF GABA has been reported in pyridoxal-5-phosphate dependent seizures.
An enzyme used primarily to for prostate cancer detection, but largely replaced by PSA.
Blood specimens should be drawn prior to rectal examination because some patients give elevated results after prostate manipulation.
Tiglylcarnitine is a primary marker for Beta-Ketothiolase deficiency and 2-Methyl-3-hydroxybutyric aciduria.
Direct or indirect contact with bird allergens may cause sensitisation.
Bird allergens may be major components of house dust.
Finch is the common name for members of the Fringillidae, the largest family of birds (including over half the known species), found in most parts of the world except Australia.
Coxsackievirus A9 (CVA9) is non-enveloped, icosahedral, positive-sense RNA virus that is classified as part of the Human enterovirus B group (HEV-B).
Symptoms of infection with CVA9 include respiratory infections, myocarditis, encephalitis, paralysis, rash, and severe generalized infections in newborns.
The coxsackie viruses CVA9, CVB1, CVB3, and CVB5 may be involved in the development of childhood diabetes.
Phosphatidic acid (PA) is the acid form of phosphatidate, a part of common phospholipids, major constituents of cell membranes.
Phosphatidic acid is the simplest diacyl-glycerophospholipid.
Ascorbic acid is an essential nutrient in human diets, and is necessary to maintain connective tissue and bone.
The biologically active form of ascorbic acid is vitamin C. Vitamin C is a water soluble vitamin.
Primates (including humans) and a few other species in all divisions of the animal kingdom, notably the guinea pig, have lost the ability to synthesize ascorbic acid and must obtain it in their food.
Ascorbic acid is an electron donor for enzymes involved in collagen hydroxylation, biosynthesis of carnitine and norepinephrine, tyrosine metabolism, and amidation of peptide hormones.
Ascrobic acid (vitamin C) deficiency causes scurvy.
The amount of vitamin C necessary to prevent scurvy may not be adequate to maintain optimal health.
The ability of vitamin C to donate electrons also makes it a potent water-soluble antioxidant that readily scavenges free radicals such as molecular oxygen, superoxide, hydroxyl radical, and hypochlorous acid.
In this setting, several mechanisms could account for a link between vitamin C and heart disease.
One is the relation between LDL oxidation and vitamins C and E. Vitamin C in vitro can recycle vitamin E, which can donate electrons to prevent LDL oxidation in vitro.
As the lipid-phase vitamin E is oxidized, it can be regenerated by aqueous vitamin C. Other possibilities are that vitamin C could decrease cholesterol by mechanisms not well characterized, or could improve vasodilatation and vascular reactivity, perhaps by decreasing the interactions of nitric oxide with oxidants. .
Phthalic anhydride is the anhydride of phthalic acid.
It dissolves in alcohol and some other organic solvents.
Phthalic anhydride is obtained either by catalytic oxidation of ortho -xylene with O2 (oxygen) or by catalytic oxidation of naphthalene.
The biproducts of the napthalene reaction are carbon dioxide and water.
It is hydrolyzed by hot water, forming ortho -phthalic acid.
Phthalic anhydride is widely used in industry in the production of dyes (rhodamine, anthraquinone derivatives), insecticides, plasticizers, in pharmacy, in analytic chemistry, etc.
Veterinary medicine: Sulfachloropyridazine is a sulfamide antibiotic used to treat gram-negative bacterial infections such as Escherichia coli and Salmonella.
In some countries, Sulfachloropyridazine is used to treat urinary tract infections in humans.
The Litchi tree is native to Southeast Asia, in particular to southern China, where it flourishes, especially along rivers and near the seacoast.
It spread through other parts of Asia, and in the nineteenth century to the New World.
China, however, still leads in Litchi fruit production.
Litchi may induce symptoms of food allergy, including anaphylaxis, in sensitised individuals.
The presence of glycosaminoglycans (GAGs) in urine is indicative of a mucopolysaccharidoses (MPSs) disease or sometimes bone, connective tissue, thyroid, or urinary disease or an oligosaccharidoses.
The MPSs are characterized by any enzyme deficiency inolved in the degradation of a GAG molecule such as heparan sulfate, keratan sulfate, or chondroitin sulfate.
GAGs then accumuilate in lysozomes causing disease which can present variably and involve multiple systems.
Fluoride is the ionic form of fluorine.
Fluorides are organic and inorganic compounds containing the element fluorine.
As a halogen, fluorine forms a monovalent ion (ˆ'1 charge).
Fluoride forms a binary compound with another element or radical.
Examples of common fluoride compounds include hydrofluoric acid (H F), and sodium fluoride (Na F).
Citrate testing is used to diagnose renal tubular acidosis and evaluate kidney stone disease.
Acid-base balance plays a critical role in citrate excretion.
In acidosis, increased citrate utilization occurs and causes reduced citrate excretion.
In alkalosis, citrate excretion increases.
Hypocitruria promotes the formation of calcium kidney stones because citrate normally binds urinary calcium as a soluble calcium citrate salt.
Hypocitruria may also have a role in uric acid stone formation.
Citrate excretion is impaired by acidosis, hypokalemia, urinary tract infection, and a high animal protein/high acid-ash content diet.
Urine citrate levels may also be decreased with severe muscular activity, hypoparathyroidism, diabetes, and chronic renal failure.
Urine citrate levels may be increased with high carbohydrate diet, estrogen therapy, and Vitamin D use.
A centrocyte generally refers to a B cell with a cleaved nucleus, as may be seen in for example, follicular lymphoma.
During B cell development, centrocytes are formed following the cessation of centroblast proliferation.
The median channel shift (MCS) is used to determine B and T cell crossmatch results.
The MCS is a measure of a patient's antibodies against potential donor antigens.
An MCS value above a certain cutoff, which can vary across laboratories, signifies a positive crossmatch, meaning that a potential recipient has antibodies to donor antigens.
Higher MCS values are associated with increased risk of antibody-mediated rejection.
Meticillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus isolates can be classified into three mupirocin susceptibility groups by the disc diffusion method using 5 and 200 µg mupirocin discs.
The zone diameter observed for a 5 µg disc distinguished MupS from the resistant strains (MupRL or MupRH).
A 200 µg disc distinguished the high-resistance MupRH strains from the other two (MupS or MupRL).
Naloxone is a pure opioid antagonist and, when taken at recommended doses, has no physiological effects in the absence of an opioid agonist.
Intravenous naloxone becomes effective within two minutes of injection, but oral or sublingual naloxone has little effect due to its poor absorption.
Therefore, intravenous naloxone is used to treat opioid overdose, and it is used as a sublingual combination with buprenorphine, an opioid agonist-antagonist used to treat chronic opioid-dependence, to lower buprenorphine's abuse potential as follows: when the combination is taken sublingually as prescribed, naloxone exerts little effect and buprenorphine's effects predominate; however, if crushed and injected intravenously, naloxone's antagonist properties reverse the agonist effects of buprenorphine and can precipitate withdrawal.
Nalaxone levels along with its inactive metabolite, naloxone-3-glucuronide (N3G), may be measured to monitor compliance or identify illicit opioid drug use.
Sesamum indicum, originally from India, is now grown very widely: in India, the Middle East, the United States, Latin America, China, and elsewhere.
Sesame seed has become a significant and common inducer of food allergy symptoms in sensitised individuals.
The HEXA gene (hexosaminidase A (alpha polypeptide)) is located on chromosome 15q24.1.
This gene encodes the alpha subunit of the lysosomal enzyme beta-hexosaminidase that, together with the cofactor GM2 activator protein, catalyzes the degradation of the ganglioside GM2, and other molecules containing terminal N-acetyl hexosamines.
Beta-hexosaminidase is composed of two subunits, alpha and beta, which are encoded by separate genes.
Both beta-hexosaminidase alpha and beta subunits are members of family 20 of glycosyl hydrolases.
Mutations in the alpha or beta subunit genes lead to an accumulation of GM2 ganglioside in neurons and neurodegenerative disorders termed the GM2 gangliosidoses.
Alpha subunit gene mutations lead to Tay-Sachs disease (GM2-gangliosidosis type I).
Coproporhyrin III is a porphyrin metabolite arising from heme synthesis.
Porphyrins are pigments found in both animal and plant life.
Coproporphyrin III is a tetrapyrrole dead-end product from the spontaneous oxidation of the methylene bridges of coproporphynogen, arising from heme synthesis and secreted in feces and urine.
Increased levels of coproporphyrins can indicate congenital erythropoietic porphyria or sideroblastic anaemia.
Porphyria is a pathological state characterised by abnormalities of porphyrin metabolism and results in the excretion of large quantities of porphyrins in the urine and in extreme sensitivity to light.
A large number of factors are capable of increasing porphyrin excretion, owing to different and multiple causes and etiologies: 1) the main site of the chronic hepatic porphyria disease process concentrates on the liver, 2) a functional and morphologic liver injury is almost regularly associated with this chronic porphyria, 3) the toxic form due to occupational and environmental exposure takes mainly a subclinical course.
Hepatic factors includes disturbance in coproporphyrinogen metabolism, which results from inhibition of coproporphyrinogen oxidase as well as from the rapid loss from, and diminished utilization of coproporphyrinogen in the hepatocytes, which may also explain why coproporphyrin, its autoxidation product, predominates physiologically in the urine; decreased biliary excretion of coproporphyrin leading to a compensatory urinary excretion, so that the coproporphyrin ring isomer ratio (1:III) becomes a sensitive index for impaired liver function and intrahepatic cholestasis; and disturbed activity of hepatic uroporphyrinogen decarboxylase.
In itself, secondary coproporphyrinuria is not associated with porphyria symptoms of a hepatologic-gastroenterologic, neurologic, or dermatologic order, even though coproporphyrinuria can occur with such symptoms.
The Urokinase receptor, also known as uPA receptor or uPAR or CD87 (Cluster of Differentiation 87), is multidomain glycoprotein tethered to the cell membrane with a glycosylphosphotidylinositol (GPI) anchor.
uPAR was originally identified as a saturable binding site for urokinase on the cell surface.
Casein (from Latin caseus, "cheese") is the name for a family of related phosphoproteins (αS1, αS2, β, κ).
These proteins are commonly found in mammalian milk, making up 80% of the proteins in cow milk and between 20% and 45% of the proteins in human milk.
Casein has a wide variety of uses, from being a major component of cheese, to use as a food additive, to a binder for safety matches.
As a food source, casein supplies amino acids, carbohydrates, and the two inorganic elements calcium and phosphorus.
A small fraction of the population is allergic to casein.
The SLC37A4 gene (solute carrier family 37 member 4) is located on chromosome 11q23.3.
This gene regulates glucose-6-phosphate transport from the cytoplasm to the lumen of the endoplasmic reticulum, in order to maintain glucose homeostasis.
It also plays a role in ATP-mediated calcium sequestration in the lumen of the endoplasmic reticulum.
Mutations in this gene have been associated with various forms of glycogen storage disease.
Alternative splicing in this gene results in multiple transcript variants.
The Ambler classification for carbapenemases utilizes four molecular classes - A, B, C and D.
The GIM enzymes identified in Pseudomonas spp. are included in class B.
The clinical revelance of of the GIM enzymes is that they can act as reservoires and carriers of the causal factor of resistance.
The growing prevalence of carbapenemase-producing organisms reveals the importance of optimizing the detection while minimizing the dissemination of these types of strains.
Galactose-1-phosphate uridylyltransferase (or GALT) is an enzyme responsible for converting ingested galactose to glucose.
GALT catalyzes the second step of the Leloir pathway of galactose metabolism.
The expression of GALT is controlled by the actions of the FOXO3 gene.
Deficiency of GALT causes classic galactosemia and can be fatal in the newborn period if lactose is not removed from the diet.
Symptoms include ovarian failure, cataracts, and neurologic deficits.
An enzyme hydrolyzing terminal non-reducing N-acetyl-D-hexosamine residues in N-acetyl-beta-D-hexosaminides.
It acts on GLUCOSIDES; GALACTOSIDES; and several OLIGOSACCHARIDES.
Hexosaminidase A cleaves GM2, GA2, globosides, and hexosamine oligosaccharides.
Hexosaminidase B cleaves all the above substrates except GM2.
Deficiency of Hexosaminidase A causes TAY-SACHS DISEASE, while deficiency of both A and B isozymes causes SANDHOFF DISEASE.
The enzyme has also been used as a tumor marker to distinguish between malignant and benign disease.
Lytic-resistant RBCs occur with various hemoglobinopathies, in liver disease and in neonatal and premature adults.
They can interfere with WBC count in some analyzers.
Homoserine is a more reactive variant of the amino acid serine that contains an extra CH2 group on the hydroxyl side chain, which allows it to form a five-membered ring.
This occurs at the point that amino acids normally join to their neighbours in a peptide bond, which makes it unsuitable for forming proteins.
Homoserine is the final product on the C-terminal end of the N-terminal fragment following a cyanogen bromide cleavage.
Neisseria species are gram-negative, non-spore-forming, non-motile cocci belonging to the Neisseriaceae family.
They are all oxidase positive, and except for N elongate subspecies nitroreducens and N elongate subspecies elongate, they are all catalase positive.
Neisseria sp growth is encouraged in CO2-enhanced, humid environments.
Most of the Neisseria sp are normal flora of the upper respiratory tract and oropharynx.
Neisseria sp are transmitted by nasal and throat secretions.
The only pathogenic species of Neisseria are N gonorrhoeae and N meningitides.
Normally non-pathogenic Neisseria species can become critical infections in immunocompromised patients.
Humans, dogs, guinea pigs, rhesus monkeys, cows, and iguanid lizards serve as reservoirs for Neisseria sp.
Clostridium septicum is a gram positive, spore forming, obligate anaerobic bacterium.
Clostridium septicum can cause gas gangrene, but unlike other Clostridium species like Clostridium perfringens, no trauma is necessary at the site of the infection.
It is thought that the infection is established by hematogenous spread from the gastrointestinal tract.
Gas gangrene caused by Clostridium septicum is associated with colorectal cancer and other defects of the bowel.
Clostridium septicum causes myonecrosis through the release of exotoxins such as the alpha toxin, lethal toxin, and hemolytic toxin
Omadacycline is a broad spectrum antibiotic used for the treatment of life threatening infections such as complicated skin and skin structure infections and moderate to severe community acquired bacterial pneumonia.
It is active resistant bacteria such as methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA), multi-drug resistant Streptococcus pneumoniae (MDRSP) and vancomycin-resistant enterococci (VRE).
Measures galactose-1-phosphate concentrations when galactosemia patients are challenged with galactose load.
Bayberry is a member of the Myrica genus, consisting of about 35-50 species of small trees and shrubs in the family Myricaceae, order Fagales.
Members of the genus are found in Africa, Asia, Europe, North America and South America, but not Australasia.
Allergy to pollen from Bayberry has not been commonly reported.
Eutylone (hydrochloride) is categorized as a designer drug or substance of abuse.
It has a similar structure to that of cathinones, amphetamines, and pyrovalerone.
Synthetic cathinones cause amphetamine-like effects.
They are mainly used for social purposes but are also used for their stimulant properties.
Effects of synthetic cathinones depend on the individual, the dosage of drug administered and the route of administration but the primary effects which make them attractive are increased alertness, sociability, effectiveness in work, euphoria, intense physical and sensory pleasure and a decreased appetite.
The most common adverse effects are cardiac and neurologic.
The BCS1L gene (BC1 (ubiquinol-cytochrome c reductase) synthesis-like) is located on chromosome 2q33.
This gene encodes a homolog of the S. cerevisiae bcs1 protein which is involved in the assembly of complex III of the mitochondrial respiratory chain.
The encoded protein does not contain a mitochondrial targeting sequence but experimental studies confirm that it is imported into mitochondria.
Mutations in this gene are associated with mitochondrial complex III deficiency and the GRACILE syndrome.
Five alternatively spliced transcripts encoding the same protein have been described.
An amino alcohol that has been used as a myocardial stimulant and vasodilator and to relieve bronchospasm.
Its most common therapeutic use is in orthostatic hypotension.
The mechanism of heptaminol's therapeutic actions is not well understood although it has been suggested to affect catecholamine release or calcium metabolism.
Lithocholic acid (LCA) is the secondary bile acid (BA) formed from chenodeoxycholic acid (CDCA).
Taurolithocholic acid (TLC) is also a secondary BA, which is formed from conjugation of LCA with taurine.
BAs act as signaling molecules and affect macrophage cytokine expression.
TLC is a strong agonist of TGR5, which is a G-protein coupled BA receptor expressed on macrophages.
TLC modulates macrophages that are induced by lipopolysaccharide, which may contribute to the impaired response to bacterial and viral infections in patients with cholestasis.
An antipsychotic phenothiazine derivative with actions and uses similar to those of CHLORPROMAZINE.
A highly volatile inhalation anesthetic used mainly in short surgical procedures where light anesthesia with good analgesia is required.
It is also used as an industrial solvent.
Prolonged exposure to high concentrations of the vapor can lead to cardiotoxicity and neurological impairment.
Endovascular reconstruction of an artery, which may include the removal of atheromatous plaque and/or the endothelial lining as well as simple dilatation.
These are procedures performed by catheterization.
When reconstruction of an artery is performed surgically, it is called ENDARTERECTOMY.
Native to western Asia and south-eastern Europe, this aromatic legume plant is well known almost worldwide for its pleasantly bitter, slightly sweet seeds, sometimes described as having a suggestion of burnt sugar.
Fenugreek grows today in many parts of the world, including India, northern Africa and the United States.
Anecdotal evidence suggests that fenugreek may induce symptoms of food allergy in sensitised individuals; however, few studies have been reported to date.
Reactions may follow ingestion, inhalation or external application of fenugreek seed powder.
CD49b (also known as DX5) is an integrin alpha subunit.
It makes up half of the α2β1 integrin duplex.
This gene product belongs to the integrin alpha chain family.
Integrins are heterodimeric integral membrane glycoproteins composed of a distinct alpha chain and a common beta chain.
They are found on a wide variety of cell types including, T cells, NK cells, fibroblasts and platelets.
Integrins are involved in cell adhesion and also participate in cell-surface mediated signalling.
Cholesterol esterase (lysosomal acid lipase, LAL) is an enzyme that catalyzes the hydrolysis of cholesterol and other sterol esters, to release cholesterol plus a fatty acid anion.
Cholesterol esterase activity is used to diagnose lysosomal storage disorders, Wolman Disease and Cholesteryl Ester Storage Disease (CESD), which are due to a deficiency of this enzyme.
Lithium is useful in the treatment of bipolar disorder.
Lithium salts may also be helpful for related diagnoses, such as schizoaffective disorder and cyclic major depression.
The active part of these salts is the lithium ion Li+.
They may increase the risk of developing Ebstein's cardiac anomaly in infants born to women who take lithium during the first trimester of pregnancy.
Lithium has also been researched as a possible treatment for cluster headaches.
One of the BENZODIAZEPINES that is used in the treatment of ANXIETY DISORDERS.
Cefotaxime is a third-generation cephalosporin antibiotic.
Like other third-generation cephalosporins, it has broad spectrum activity against Gram positive and Gram negative bacteria.
In most cases, it is equivalent to ceftriaxone in terms of safety and efficacy.
Cefotaxime sodium is marketed under various trade names including Claforan (Sanofi-Aventis).
The silica clotting time (SCT) is a PTT-like assay that uses colloidal silica as its negatively charged particulate activator and is useful in the diagnosis of lupus anticoagulant.
The patient's Screen and Confirm results are divided by their respective means to produce normalized SCT Screen and SCT Confirm ratios.
The normalized clotting time is calculated by dividing the patient SCT Screen ratio the patient SCT Confirm ratio to generate the normalized SCT ratio.
The Rothman Index (RI) is a calculation based on data found in a patient's electronic health record.
The index may help identify patients at increased risk for 24-hour mortality and 30-day unplanned readmission based on a set of 26 clinical measurements gathered from nursing assessments, vital signs, laboratory results and cardiac rhythms.
Two sub-models of the RI are used to measure risk - one which includes nursing assessments, vital signs and laboratory data (RIwithLab) and one which includes nursing assessments, vital signs, and cardiac rhythm (RInoLab).
During admission, RI values are continuously updated whenever a new result is available.
RI calculated at discharge is used to predict risk for unplanned readmission.
The RI score typically ranges from 0 to 100, but critically ill patients may have negative RI values as low as −91.
Cystathionine is a gamma cystathionase enzyme that when inactive results in excess cystathionine in the blood, urine, and cerebrospinal fluid(CSF).
It is a benign condition that does not require treatment.
Information from Tietz' "Fundamentals of Clinical Chemistry, " 5th ed, editors:Burtis CA and Ashwood ER, 2001
Noninvasive prenatal screening is used to assess fetal risk for various genetic conditions without requiring invasive maternal procedures such as amniocentesis or chorionic villus sampling.
Cell-free DNA (cfDNA) in maternal plasma comes from both fetal and maternal sources, and various platforms have been developed using cfDNA to determine fetal risk.
Natera's Panorama prenatal screening test uses a single blood sample from a pregnant woman, and using their proprietary informatics analysis method (NATUS), effectively subtracts the maternal genotype (from WBC DNA) from the cfDNA genotype and analyzes the remaining fetal cfDNA genotype for a variety of conditions including aneuploidy (e.g., Trisomy 21, Monosomy X) and microdeletions (e.g., 22q11.2 deletion).
Specific results are typically reported for each individual condition and summarized for the report as a whole -- if the risk of any individual condition is high, the overall interpretation is "high risk," and if all the individual risks are low, the overall interpretation is "low risk.
In addition, the genetic counselor who reviews the results may add specific interpretation details or follow-up recommendations to the report.
A dideoxynucleoside compound in which the 3'-hydroxy group on the sugar moiety has been replaced by a hydrogen.
This modification prevents the formation of phosphodiester linkages which are needed for the completion of nucleic acid chains.
Didanosine is a potent inhibitor of HIV replication, acting as a chain-terminator of viral DNA by binding to reverse transcriptase; ddI is then metabolized to dideoxyadenosine triphosphate, its putative active metabolite.
The sperm motility index (SMI) is determined by an automated, method that reflects the concentration of motile sperm and the intensity of their motility.
The SMI shows a good correlation with manual assessment of sperm density, motility, and morphology.
SMI > 160 is considered "Good", 80-160 is "Medium", and <80 is "Poor".
Tocopherols (or TCP) are a class of chemical compounds of which many have vitamin E activity.
It is a series of organic compounds consisting of various methylated phenols.
alpha-Tocopherol is the main source found in supplements and in the European diet, while gamma-tocopherol is the most common form in the American diet.
The compound alpha-tocopherol, a common form of tocopherol added to food products, is denoted by the E number E307.
2-oxo-3-bydroxy lysergic acid diethylamide (O-H-LSD) is a metabolite of lysergic acid diethylamide (LSD), a powerful psychoactive illicit drug.
O-H-LSD is present in human urine at concentrations greater than LSD.
An anabolic steroid used mainly as a growth substance in animals.
An aminoglycoside, broad-spectrum antibiotic produced by Streptomyces tenebrarius.
It is effective against gram-negative bacteria, especially the pseudomonas species.
It is a 10% component of the antibiotic complex, nebramycin, produced by the same species.
English Plantain is an erect perennial growing 0.3 m to 0.5 m in height.
The leaves are found at the base of the stalk, and are dark green, 5 to 40 cm long, 8 to 25 mm wide, and 3-ribbed, with a smooth, wavy texture.
The margins are slightly toothed.
The leaves are oblong or lance-shaped, tapering at the base into a slender stalk.
The leaf axils are often filled with long brownish cottony hairs.
English Plantain pollen is an important cause of asthma, allergic rhinitis and allergic conjunctivitis, particularly in the temperate regions of North America, Australia and Europe.
4-Hydroxyphenylpyruvic acid (4-HPPA) is a keto acid.
It is a product of the enzyme (R)-4-hydroxyphenyllactate dehydrogenase and is formed during tyrosine metabolism (KEGG).
There are two isomers of HPPA, specifically 4HPPA and 3HPPA, of which 4HPPA is the most common.
The enzyme 4-hydroxyphenylpyruvic acid dioxygenase (HPD) catalyzes the reaction of 4-hydroxyphenylpyruvic acid to homogentisic acid in the tyrosine catabolism pathway.
A deficiency in the catalytic activity of HPD is known to lead to tyrosinemia type III, an autosomal recessive disorder characterized by elevated levels of blood tyrosine and massive excretion of tyrosine derivatives into urine.
It has been shown that hawkinsinuria, an autosomal dominant disorder characterized by the excretion of 'hawkinsin,' may also be a result of HPD deficiency .
Fasciola is a genus of trematodes which includes economically important parasite species.
Members of genus Fasciola belongs to liver flukes.
They causes the disease fasciolosis.
Species: Fasciola hepatica, Fasciola gigantica, Fasciola jacksoni, hybrid or introgressed populations of Fasciola gigantica × Fasciola hepatica also exist
Lemon is the fruit of the Lemon tree.
The true home of the Lemon is unknown, though some have thought it to be northwestern India.
Ingestion of Lemon may result in allergic reactions, including food allergy, allergic rhinoconjunctivitis, atopic dermatitis and anaphylaxis.
Citrus fruit such as Lemon is among the most common causes of atopic dermatitis.
Immature lymphocytes include lymphoblasts and prolymphocytes.
Lymphoblasts, the morphologically most immature cells of the lymphocytic series, are 10 to 20 u in diameter and usually round or oval, originating in the lymphoid tissue and marrow.
Prolymphocytes are the form between lymphoblasts and lymphocytes, with a large spectrum of intermediates.
In lymphocytic leukemias immature forms proliferate uncontrollably and may be found in large numbers in the peripheral blood..
Lysophosphatidylcholine(20:0), or LysoPC(20:0), lysophospholipid (LyP); it is a monoglycerophospholipid in which a phosphorylcholine moiety occupies a glycerol substitution site, more specificially it consists of one chain of arachidic acid at the C-1 (sn-1) position.
LysoPC(20:0) is an endogenously present analog of LysoPC(26:0).
LysoPC(20:0) levels are measured in dried blood spots (DBS) and are used with Lysophosphatidylcholine(26:0) levels as a ratio (LysoPC26:0/LysoPC20:0) to monitor increases in LysoPC(26:0) accumulation in patients with X-linked adrenoleukodystrophy (X-ALD).
A organothiophosphorus cholinesterase inhibitor that is used as an anthelmintic, insecticide, and as a nematocide.
The CHEK2 gene (checkpoint kinase 2) is located on chromosome 22q12.1.
In response to DNA damage and replication blocks, cell cycle progression is halted through the control of critical cell cycle regulators.
The protein encoded by this gene is a cell cycle checkpoint regulator and putative tumor suppressor.
It contains a forkhead-associated protein interaction domain essential for activation in response to DNA damage and is rapidly phosphorylated in response to replication blocks and DNA damage.
When activated, the encoded protein is known to inhibit CDC25C phosphatase, preventing entry into mitosis, and has been shown to stabilize the tumor suppressor protein p53, leading to cell cycle arrest in G1.
In addition, this protein interacts with and phosphorylates BRCA1, allowing BRCA1 to restore survival after DNA damage.
Mutations in this gene have been linked with Li-Fraumeni syndrome, a highly penetrant familial cancer phenotype usually associated with inherited mutations in TP53.
Also, mutations in this gene are thought to confer a predisposition to sarcomas, breast cancer, and brain tumors.
This nuclear protein is a member of the CDS1 subfamily of serine/threonine protein kinases.
Several transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
Oxygen levels assess the adequacy of gas exchange in the lungs, tissue perfusion and ventilatory support.
Prochlorperazine (Compazine, Stemzine, Buccastem, Stemetil, Phenotil) is a drug that belongs to the phenothiazine and antiemetic classes.
It is an antipsychotic agent.
Primary uses are as an antiemetic treatment of nausea and vertigo, and as a highly-potent typical antipsychotic, 10-20x more potent than chlorpromazine.
The gilthead seabream (Sparus aurata) is a warmwater fish found in the Mediterranean and along the eastern Atlantic coastal areas from the United Kingdom to the Canary Islands.
It survives in marine and brackish waters, rocky or sandy bottoms, and seagrass beds.
The gilthead seabream is farmed extensively using technologically advanced hatcheries.
Clot growth is expressed as an increase in length over time and is related to the propagation stage of blood coagulation.
When calculated using time-lapse microscopy (i.e., thrombodynamics or spatiotemporal clot analysis), if there is no spontaneous clotting, the growth velocity is calculated as the average growth velocity between 15-25 minutes after the beginning of clot growth and is called the stationary growth velocity.
If spontaneous clotting is present, then clot growth (called initial clot growth) is calculated based on growth during the 5-minute interval preceding the appearance of spontaneous clots.
TTR was originally called prealbumin (or Thyroxine-binding prealbumin) because it ran faster than albumin on electrophoresis gels.
Transthyretin (TTR) is a serum and cerebrospinal fluid carrier of the thyroid hormone thyroxine (T4) and retinol binding protein bound to retinol.
This is how transthyretin gained its name, transports thyroxine and retinol.
The liver secretes transthyretin into the blood, and the choroid plexus secretes TTR into the cerebrospinal fluid.
TTR misfolding and aggregation is known to be associated with the amyloid diseases, senile systemic amyloidosis (SSA), familial amyloid polyneuropathy (FAP), and familial amyloid cardiomyopathy (FAC).
Substance Info: (and synonyms) Nutmeg / Nutmeg oil Background Info: Is the kernel of the fruit of the nutmeg tree, Myristica fragrans houtt.
Used for producing mace.
It is used as a flavourant in a wide range of food; usually grated.
Oil is used as a flavourant and is toxic in large quantities.
The HNF1B gene (HNF1 homeobox B) is located on chromosome 17q12.
This gene encodes a member of the homeodomain-containing superfamily of transcription factors.
The protein binds to DNA as either a homodimer, or a heterodimer with the related protein hepatocyte nuclear factor 1-alpha.
The gene has been shown to function in nephron development, and regulates development of the embryonic pancreas.
Mutations in this gene result in renal cysts and diabetes syndrome and noninsulin-dependent diabetes mellitus, and expression of this gene is altered in some types of cancer.
Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
Rh is the most complex of the blood groups systems, embracing over 45 distinct antigens, the absence or presence of which combine to exhibit an individual's Rh blood group type.
The most clinical important antigen, D or Rho, was the first discovered in 1940 and has been generally referred to as the Rh antigen, being present in over 85% of the random population.
Those individuals that lack the D antigen are considered to be Rh negative.
The Rh antigens are encoded by two highly homologous and closely linked genes on the short arm of chromosome 1.
The RHD gene producing the D antigen, or most of its components; RhCE gene producing the Cc and Ee antigens or their variants.
The majority of the antigens within this system represent products of gene cross-over, point mutations or deletions within one or both genes.
The Rh antigens appear to be red cell specific, appearing early during development of red blood cells, and have not been found on other body tissues.
Antibodies against the Rh antigens have caused severe and fatal transfusion reactions and hemolytic disease of the newborn.
The importance of the Rh antigens in the erythroid membrane is exemplified by the fact that in many examples of auto-immune hemolytic anemia, auto-Rh antibodies are frequently found.
3-Hydroxyisobutyric acid (or 3-hydroxy-2-methylpropanoic acid) is an intermediate in the metabolism of valine.
It is elevated in 3-hydroxyisobutyric aciduria, a condition with a poorly understood biochemical basis as of 2011.
Stem cells are undifferentiated cells that have the potential to develop into many different types of cells.
Non-hematopoietic stem cells (also called mesenchymal stem cells) can generate bone, cartilage, and fat cells, while hematopoietic stem cells can develop into different types of blood cells.
An oxidative deaminated metabolite of p-tyramine.
Also a metabolite of tyrosine via enteric bacteria.
The bacterial origin of this compound was confirmed by the finding that this compound in urine decreased significantly after the use of the antibiotic neomycin.
Juniperus virginiana (Eastern Redcedar, Red Cedar, Eastern Juniper, Red Juniper, Pencil Cedar) is a species of juniper native to eastern North America, from southeastern Canada to the Gulf of Mexico, east of the Great Plains.
Clostridium baratii and the more commonly known C. botulinum are gram positive, anaerobic bacteria that produce a potent neurotoxin (BoNT) that binds to presynaptic nerve terminals preventing release of acetylcholine, blocking neurotransmission.
Both C. botulinum Toxin types A, B, E, F and C. baratii type F can produce severe, potentially fatal illness in humans.
Illness can occur as foodborne botulism which occurs when a person ingests pre-formed toxin that leads to illness within a few hours to days.
Foodborne botulism is a public health emergency because the contaminated food may still be available to other persons besides the patient.
Infant botulism occurs in a small number of susceptible infants each year who become infected when C. botulinum or C. baratii bacteria grow in their intestinal tract.
Wound botulism occurs when open skin lesions or wounds are infected with C. botulinum that secretes the toxin.
It is also important to recognize that C. botulinum and C. baratii and the associated toxins are on the Department of Health and Human Services and the USDA list of Select Agents that could be used as weapons of bioterrorism.
For this reason, it is necessary to have a rapid testing procedure that can determine if this toxin could be present in patient samples.
The viscous secretion of mucous membranes.
It contains mucin, white blood cells, water, inorganic salts, and exfoliated cells.
The skin temperature setting is the goal temperature for the patient measured on the skin surface.
The infant incubator or radiant warmer can compare the set temperature to the actual skin temperature and automatically adjust the amount of heat provided.
Porcine circoviruses (PCV) are small nonenveloped DNA viruses in the Circoviridae family that contain a single-stranded circular genome.
PCV are the smallest viruses replicating autonomously in eukaryotic cells by utilizing the host polymerase for genome amplification.
PCV type 3 (PCV3) was first identified in 2016 in the United States.
Though infection with PCV3 is usually asymptomatic, it can cause systemic disease and reproductive disorders.
Though the virus is newly described, it has existed for some time and is found in pigs across the world.
The ORF2 gene is used to differentiate strains of PCV3.
A 16-kDa peptide hormone secreted by white adipocytes and implicated in the regulation of food intake and energy balance.
Leptin provides the key afferent signal from fat cells in the feedback system that controls body fat stores.
A species of the genus Saccharomyces, family Saccharomycetaceae, order Saccharomycetales, known as "baker's" or "brewer's" yeast.
The dried form is used as a dietary supplement.
The RPS19 gene (ribosomal protein S19) is located on chromosome 19q13.2.
Ribosomes, the organelles that catalyze protein synthesis, consist of a small 40S subunit and a large 60S subunit.
Together these subunits are composed of 4 RNA species and approximately 80 structurally distinct proteins.
This gene encodes a ribosomal protein that is a component of the 40S subunit.
The protein belongs to the S19E family of ribosomal proteins.
It is located in the cytoplasm.
Mutations in this gene cause Diamond-Blackfan anemia (DBA), a constitutional erythroblastopenia characterized by absent or decreased erythroid precursors, in a subset of patients.
This suggests a possible extra-ribosomal function for this gene in erythropoietic differentiation and proliferation, in addition to its ribosomal function.
Higher expression levels of this gene in some primary colon carcinomas compared to matched normal colon tissues has been observed.
As is typical for genes encoding ribosomal proteins, there are multiple processed pseudogenes of this gene dispersed through the genome.
Flucytosine, or 5-fluorocytosine, a fluorinated pyrimidine analogue, is a synthetic antimycotic drug.
It is structurally related to the cytostatic fluorouracil and to floxuridine.
It is available in oral and in some countries also in injectable form.
The presence of the Choriogonadotropin beta subunit (B HCG) in plasma or serum shortly after conception followed by its rapid rise in concentration makes it an excellent marker for confirmation and monitoring of pregnancy.
Used only for pregnancy testing.
HCG done at 16-20 weeks of pregnancy for the purpose of finding a M.O.M. value and to determine risk of a defect in the fetus.
Zonisamide is a sulfonamide anticonvulsant used in combination with other medications to treat certain types of seizures.
It is used as therapy for children and adults with generalized or refractory partial seizures.
The first chemical element in the periodic table.
It has the atomic symbol H, atomic number 1, and atomic weight 1.
It exists, under normal conditions, as a colorless, odorless, tasteless, diatomic gas.
Hydrogen ions are PROTONS.
Besides the common H1 isotope, hydrogen exists as the stable isotope DEUTERIUM and the unstable, radioactive isotope TRITIUM.
Pregabalin (brand name Lyrica) is an anticonvulsant gamma-aminobutyric acid analog drug used for neuropathic pain and as an adjunct therapy for partial seizures with or without secondary generalization in adults.
It has also been found effective for generalized anxiety disorder.
Studies have shown that pregabalin is effective at treating chronic pain in disorders such as fibromyalgia and spinal cord injury.
It was designed as a more potent successor to gabapentin, and considered to have a low potential for abuse and limited dependence liability if misused.
Non-HDL cholesterol is the total cholesterol minus HDL cholesterol.
Non-HDL cholesterol has been suggested as a better predictor of cardiovascular risk than LDL alone.
CDC11c is a type I transmembrane protein found at high levels on dendritic cells, but also on monocytes, macrophages, neutrophils, and some B cells that induces cellular activation and helps trigger neutrophil respiratory burst ; expressed in hairy cell leukemias, acute nonlymphocytic leukemias, and some B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemias.
Leymus triticoides is a species of wild rye known by the common names creeping wild rye and beardless wild rye.
It is native to western North America from British Columbia to Texas,
Germinal centers are sites within secondary lymphoid organs where mature B lymphocytes proliferate, differentiate, mutate their antibodies (through somatic hypermutation), and switch the class of their antibodies (for example from IgM to IgG) during a normal immune response to an infection.
During this process of rapid division and selection, B cells are known as centroblasts, and once they have stopped proliferating they are known as centrocytes.
The mecC gene, a homologue of mecA, is found in bacterial cells and enable bacteria to be resistant to antibiotics such as oxacillin.
The gene is carried on a mobile genetic element called the staphylococcal cassette chromosome mec (SCCmec), which integrates at an open reading frame (orfX) in the bacterial genome.
Detection of the gene in clinical specimens suggests the presence of methicillin-resistant bacteria, primarily Staphylococcus aureaus (MRSA).
The prevalence of mecC MRSA is currently low but varies geographically where in some regions its presence is increasing.
A continuous protein fiber consisting primarily of FIBROINS.
It is synthesized by a variety of INSECTS and ARACHNIDS.
The washout rate (WR) is a measure of how quickly a tracer is cleared.
In cardiac nuclear imaging, the WR is calculated based on tracer uptake in early and delayed images.
In one study of patients on multi-drug chemotherapy regimens, the washout rate for patients on chemotherapy was significantly higher compared to controls before any other clinical signs of cardiotoxicity were apparent.
Other studies have shown that patients with heart failure of varying etiologies also have a higher WR compared to controls, and an elevated WR may be an indicator for the risk of sudden cardiac death and fatal arrhythmias.
However, patients who respond to treatment with beta blockers and/or renin-angiotensin-aldosterone inhibitors, as evidenced by improvement in NYHA functional class, have been found to have a decrease in WR on follow-up imaging studies.
5 alpha-Tetrahydrocortisol is a normal human metabolite.
However its increased ratio (5alpha-Tetrahydrocortisol + Tetrahydrocortisol) over Tetrahydrocortisone in urine is the biochemical marker for the syndrome of apparent mineralocorticoid excess (AME).
AME is a heritable form of hypertension due to an inborn error of cortisol metabolism and is characterized by hypokalemia and low renin levels despite subnormal or normal levels of aldosterone and other known mineralocorticoids.
The syndrome is attributable to congenital deficiency of the enzyme 11 beta-hydroxydehydrogenase (11 beta-HSD), which converts cortisol to biologically inactive cortisone.
This results in a prolonged half-life of Cortisol, which acts at the kidney level as a potent mineralocorticoid.
A genus of gram-positive, aerobic bacteria.
Most species are free-living in soil and water, but the major habitat for some is the diseased tissue of warm-blooded hosts.
The SHOX gene (short stature homeobox) is located on chromosome Xp22.33;Yp11.3.
This gene belongs to the paired homeobox family and is located in the pseudoautosomal region 1 (PAR1) of X and Y chromosomes.
Defects in this gene are associated with idiopathic growth retardation and in the short stature phenotype of Turner syndrome patients.
This gene is highly conserved across species from mammals to fish to flies.
Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been noted for this gene.
Nevirapine, also marketed under the trade name Viramune (Boehringer Ingelheim), is a non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitor (NNRTI) used to treat HIV-1 infection and AIDS.
As with other antiretroviral drugs, HIV rapidly develops resistance if nevirapine is used alone, so recommended therapy consists of combinations of three or more antiretrovirals.
Chromosome anomalies inv(3)(q21;q26.2) and t(3;3)(q21;q26.2) involving the PSMD2 and MECOM genes are found in acute non lymphocytic leukemia (ANLL), often preceeded by myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS).
A third chromsomal anomaly, ins(3;3)(q26;q21q26), is a variant of the these and shares the same clinical features.
Streptococcus pyogenes, or Group A streptococcus (GAS), causes disease ranging from mild skin and throat infections (e.g. strep throat) to invasive life-threatening diseases, such as scarlet fever and necrotizing fasciitis ("flesh-eating disease").
The streptococcal pyrogenic exotoxin B (speB) gene of S. pyogenes is detected by polymerase chain reaction (PCR) methods (e.g. real-time PCR).
The speB gene is commonly detected among S. pyogenes but it is not present among all subgroups.
California Black Oak (Quercus kelloggii), also known as simply Black Oak, or Kellogg Oak, is an oak in the red oak section (Quercus sect.
Lobatae), native to western North America.
It is a close relative of the Black Oak (Quercus velutina) found in eastern and central North America.
An enzyme that hydrolyzes galactose from ceramide monohexosides.
Deficiency of this enzyme may cause globoid cell leukodystrophy (LEUKODYSTROPHY, GLOBOID CELL). .
Keratan sulfate (KS) is one of the glycosaminoglycans found primarily in the cornea, nervous tissue, and bone.
When the enzyme that breaks down KS is deficient or absent, KS accumulates in lysosomes which results in cell, tissue, and organ dysfunction.
The lysosomal storage disorders are known as mucopolysaccharidoses (MPS) and can involve impaired enzymatic function that blocks the catabolism of any of the glycosaminoglycans, including dermatan sulfate, heparin sulfate, keratan sulfate, chondroitin sulfate, or hyaluronan.
MPS due to the accumulation of any one or more glycosaminoglycans have many symptoms in common including a chronic or progressive course, multisystem involvement, organomegaly, dysostosis multiplex, abnormal facies, affected hearing, affected vision, affected airway, cardiovascular issues, profound mental retardation, and joint mobility difficulties.
MPS can be diagnosed by testing for the deficient or absent enzyme.
Enzyme replacement therapy is used to monitor treatment.
Wheat (Triticum spp.) is a grass cultivated world-wide.
It is the most important human food grain and ranks second in total production as a cereal crop behind maize ; the third being rice.
Bran represents the husk of the grain when milling white flour.
Acetaminophen-cysteine adduct (APAP-CYS) levels are measured in serum or plasma for the determination of liver injury due to acetaminophen-induced hepatotoxicity.
The reactive metabolite of acetaminophen, N-acetyl-p-benzoquinone imine (NAPQI), is detoxified by glutathione at therapeutic doses.
However, when glutathione is depleted, the metabolite covalently binds to cysteine groups on proteins and forms a acetaminophen-cysteine conjugate (3-(cystein-S-yl)-acetaminophen, APAP-CYS), which is thought to lead to hepatotoxicity.
Dermal lymph-vascular invasion is invasion of the dermal lymphatic vessels as seen on histolopathologic exam.
Dermal lymphatic invasion is often seen in patients with inflammatory breast cancer, which is characterized by blood vessel proliferation, invasion, and subsequent distant metastases.
Patients with dermal invasion without inflammatory disease have significantly longer disease-free and overall survival compared to those with inflammatory disease.
Blocker of both alpha- and beta-adrenergic receptors that is used as an antihypertensive.
Methyprylon is a piperidinedione CNA depressant, which is close to barbituric acid in structure but is different enough to be called a "non-barbiturate" sedative-hypnotic.
Methyprylon is used to treat insomnia and daytime tension.
Methyprylon depresses the activity of muscle tissue, heart, and the respiratory system.
The drug was withdrawn from the U.S. market in June, 1965 and from the Canadian market in September, 1990.
Titratable acid is a term to describe acids such as phosphoric acid, sulfuric acid which are involved in renal physiology.
Titratable acidity is a measure of the presence of phosphates and organic acids in urine.
Patients with insulin resistance or diabetes tend to have increased acidic urine partly due to decreased renal ammoniagenesis.
As a result, these patients have increased excretion of daily acid load in the form of titratable acid.
Treatment is getting urinary alkalinization to a pH> 6 to 6.5 with oral citrate, which will prevent uric acid crystallization and dissolve pre existing uric acid stones.
Aspartylglucosaminidase, also known as AGA, is a human gene.
Aspartylglucosaminidase is an amidohydrolase enyzme involved in the catabolism of N-linked oligosaccharides of glycoproteins.
It cleaves asparagine from N-acetylglucosamines as one of the final steps in the lysosomal breakdown of glycoproteins.
The lysosomal storage disease aspartylglycosaminuria is caused by a deficiency in the AGA enzyme.
Rubella virus genome consists of enveloped, non-segmented, positive sense RNA.
It encodes three structural and two non-structural proteins.
The structural proteins include capsid (C) and two glycoproteins, E2 and E1.
The non-structural proteins include P150 and P90.
Genetic characterization of RuV genomes contributes to virus surveillance efforts.
Genotyping is based on comparison of a 739 nucleotide sequence in the E1 coding region to reference virus sequences.
According to the WHO nomenclature for Rubella virus, genotype names are indicated by a number (1 or 2) that indicates the clade that the genotype belongs to, followed by a letter that represents grouping within the clade.
For genotypes that are considered provisional, a lower case letter is used, and when a genotype goes from provisional to accepted status, the letter is changed to upper case.
For example, provisional genotypes 1h, 1i and 1j were established in 2007 and upgraded to 1H, 1I and 1J in 2013.
Methionine is a primary marker for homocystinuria, hypermethioninemia, methylene tetrahydrofola.
It is also a secondary marker for methylmalonic aciduria and homocystinuria.
The SERPINF1 gene (serpin peptidase inhibitor, clade F (alpha-2 antiplasmin, pigment epithelium derived factor), member 1) is located on chromosome 17p13.3.
The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the serpin family, although it does not display the serine protease inhibitory activity shown by many of the other serpin family members.
The encoded protein is secreted and strongly inhibits angiogenesis.
In addition, this protein is a neurotrophic factor involved in neuronal differentiation in retinoblastoma cells.
The word Ferret is generally applied to the domesticated variety (Mustela putorius furo) of the Polecat.
Direct or indirect contact with animal allergens frequently causes sensitisation.
Animal allergens may be major components of house dust.
Fluoride occurs naturally in the body as calcium fluoride.
Calcium fluoride is mostly found in the bones and teeth.
Small amounts of fluoride help reduce tooth decay.
Adding fluoride to tap water (called fluoridation) helps reduce cavities in children by more than half.
Natural sodium fluoride is in the ocean, so most seafood contains fluoride.
Tea and gelatin also contain fluoride.
Infants can only get fluoride through drinking infant formulas.
Breast milk has a negligible amount of fluoride in it.
A lack (deficiency) of fluoride may lead to increased cavities, and weak bones and teeth.
Too much fluoride in the diet is very rare.
Villin is a 92.5 kDa tissue-specific actin-binding protein associated with the actin core bundle of the brush border.
Villin contains multiple gelsolin-like domains capped by a small (8.5 kDa)
"headpiece" at the C-terminus consisting of a fast and independently-folding three-helix bundle that is stabilized by hydrophobic interactions.
The headpiece domain is a commonly studied protein in molecular dynamics due to its small size and fast folding kinetics and short primary sequence.
Dahlia is a genus of bushy, tuberous, perennial plants native to Mexico, Central America, and Colombia.
There are at least 36 species of dahlia.
Procedure used to simulate in vivo vascular injury which results in platelet attachment, activation & aggregation.
The time required to obtain occlusion of the aperture is reported as "closure time
Streptococcus agalactiae (group B Streptococcus) is one of the primary causes of sepsis and neonatal meningitis and has also been associated with infections in immunosuppressed patients.
All S agalactiae contain the cfb gene, which encodes CAMP factor, one of the proteins responsible for the organism's virulence.
Detection of the cfb gene in clinical specimens can help identify S agalactiae as the infectious agent.
Free hemoglobin levels rise as hemoglobin is liberated into the plasma from damaged or hemolyzed red blood cells.
Plasma hemoglobin is increased in patients with intravascular hemolysis, ABO incompatible transfusions, traumatic hemolysis, falciparum malaria, burns, and March hemoglobinuria.
Increases may also occur due to extravascular hemolysis, B-thalassemia major, warm-type autoimmune hemolytic anemia, delayed transfusion reactions, and some drugs.
Information from LOINC partner 1 2007 11 07 and Jacobs and DeMott Laboratory Test Handbook, 5th edition, DS Jacobs, WR DeMott and DK Oxley, 2001.
Toluene, also known as methylbenzene or phenylmethane is a clear, water -insoluble liquid with the typical smell of paint thinners, redolent of the sweet smell of the related compound benzene.
It is an aromatic hydrocarbon that is widely used as an industrial feedstock and as a solvent.
A commonly used laboratory solvent.
It was previously used as an anesthetic, but was banned from use in the U.S. due to its suspected carcinogenicity.
A plant species of the family Fabaceae that produces peanuts, which contain protein, oil and lectins.
Peanuts are an important cause of food allergies.
Urinary casts in which the origin is not specified.
HER2/neu (also known as ErbB-2) stands for "Human Epidermal growth factor Receptor 2" and is a protein giving higher aggressiveness in breast cancers.
It is a member of the ErbB protein family, more commonly known as the epidermal growth factor receptor family.
HER2/neu has also been designated as CD340 (cluster of differentiation 340) and p185.
It is encoded by the ERBB2 gene.
The EPCAM gene (epithelial cell adhesion molecule) is located on chromosome 2P21.
This gene encodes a carcinoma-associated antigen and is a member of a family that includes at least two type I membrane proteins.
This antigen is expressed on most normal epithelial cells and gastrointestinal carcinomas and functions as a homotypic calcium-independent cell adhesion molecule.
The antigen is being used as a target for immunotherapy treatment of human carcinomas.
Mutations in this gene result in congenital tufting enteropathy.
The carbapenemase blaOXA-51-like genes are members of the beta lactam resistance gene group OXA, which causes resistance to carbapenem antibiotics.
The blaOXA-51-like genes are primarily found in Acinetobacter baumannii, which is a common cause of multidrug-resistant nosocomial infections.
The blaOXA-51- and blaOXA-23-like genes are the two most common resistance genes in A. baumannii and cause resistance to drugs such as ceftazidime, piperacillin, cefepime, nitrofurantoin and ertapenem.
The "OXA-like" groups of genes are molecularly similar to and thought to evolve from the original gene for which the group is named.
For example, as of 2014 the blaOXA-23-like group included 19 genes, including including blaOXA-23, -27, -49, and -73.
Entamoeba histolytica is an anaerobic parasitic eukaryote protozoan, part of the genus Entamoeba.
It infects predominantly humans and other primates.
Diverse mammals such as dogs and cats can become infected but usually do not shed cysts (the environmental survival form of the organism) with their feces, thus do not contribute significantly to transmission.
The active (trophozoite) stage exists only in the host and in fresh feces; cysts survive outside the host in water and soils and on foods, especially under moist conditions on the latter.
When swallowed they cause infections by excysting (to the trophozoite stage) in the digestive tract.
Thymus is a huge genus, containing 300 to 400 species, most of which are aromatic shrubs or perennials.
Leaves are highly aromatic and are frequently used fresh or dried as a seasoning.
Thyme may uncommonly induce symptoms of allergy in sensitised individuals.
An erythrocyte membrane that remains intact after hemolysis.
A group of abnormal hemoglobins with similar electrophoretic characteristics.
They have faster electrophoretic mobility and different amino acid substitutions in either the alpha or beta chains than normal adult hemoglobin.
Some of the variants produce hematologic abnormalities, others result in no clinical disorders.
The SLC6A4 gene (solute carrier family 6 (neurotransmitter transporter), member 4) is located on chromosome 17q11.2.
This gene encodes an integral membrane protein that transports the neurotransmitter serotonin from synaptic spaces into presynaptic neurons.
The encoded protein terminates the action of serotonin and recycles it in a sodium-dependent manner.
This protein is a target of psychomotor stimulants, such as amphetamines and cocaine, and is a member of the sodium:neurotransmitter symporter family.
A repeat length polymorphism in the promoter of this gene has been shown to affect the rate of serotonin uptake and may play a role in sudden infant death syndrome, aggressive behavior in Alzheimer disease patients, and depression-susceptibility in people experiencing emotional trauma.
An alkaloid from Solanaceae, especially Datura metel L. and Scopola carniolica.
Scopolamine and its quaternary derivatives act as antimuscarinics like atropine, but may have more central nervous system effects.
Among the many uses are as an anesthetic premedication, in urinary incontinence, in motion sickness, as an antispasmodic, and as a mydriatic and cycloplegic.
CD14 is a membrane-associated glycosylphosphatidylinositol-linked protein expressed at the surface of cells, especially macrophages.
CD14 takes its name from its inclusion in the cluster of differentiation group of cell surface marker proteins.
CD14 was the first described pattern recognition receptor.
Toscana virus (TOSV) was identified in 1971 in central Italy from sandflies Phlebotomus perniciosus and Phlebotomus perfiliewi.
TOSV belongs to the family Phenuiviridae, genus Phlebovirus.
TOSV is a serotype of the species Sandfly fever Naples virus.
TOSV is the only neurotropic sandfly phlebovirus typically causing meningitis and encephalitis.
Additional neuroinvasive manifestations such as Guillain-Barré syndrome, hydrocephalus, myositis, fasciitis, polymyeloradiculopathy, deafness, and facial paralysis, have been reported.
Toscana virus broadly circulates in in European Mediterranean basin and Northern Africa .
The SFTPC gene (surfactant protein C) is located on chromosome 8p21.
This gene encodes the pulmonary-associated surfactant protein C (SPC), an extremely hydrophobic surfactant protein essential for lung function and homeostasis after birth.
Pulmonary surfactant is a surface-active lipoprotein complex composed of 90% lipids and 10% proteins which include plasma proteins and apolipoproteins SPA, SPB, SPC and SPD.
The surfactant is secreted by the alveolar cells of the lung and maintains the stability of pulmonary tissue by reducing the surface tension of fluids that coat the lung.
Multiple mutations in this gene have been identified, which cause pulmonary surfactant metabolism dysfunction type 2, also called pulmonary alveolar proteinosis due to surfactant protein C deficiency, and are associated with interstitial lung disease in older infants, children, and adults.
Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different protein isoforms have been identified.
A histamine H1 antagonist with low sedative action but frequent gastrointestinal irritation.
It is used to treat ASTHMA; HAY FEVER; URTICARIA; and RHINITIS; and also in veterinary applications.
Tripelennamine is administered by various routes, including topically.
The posterior angle formed by the palatal plane (Anterior nasal spine and Posterior nasal spine) and the mandibular plane (constructed Gonion to Gnathion)
Very-low-density lipoprotein (VLDL) is a type of lipoprotein made by the liver.
VLDL is one of the five major groups of lipoproteins (chylomicrons, VLDL, intermediate-density lipoprotein, low-density lipoprotein, high-density lipoprotein) that enables fats and cholesterol to move within the water-based solution of the bloodstream.
VLDL is assembled in the liver from cholesterol and apolipoproteins then is converted in the bloodstream to low-density lipoprotein (LDL).
VLDL particles have a diameter of 30-80 nm and transports endogenous products, whereas chylomicrons transport exogenous (dietary) products.
Hydantoin-5-propionic acid is a metabolite of histidine, and urinary hydantoin-5-propionic acid can occur in patients with disorders of folate/vitamin B12 metabolism.
Folic acid non-dependent excessive formiminoglutamic aciduria (Figlu-uria) is an extremely rare disorder; treatment with oral folate supplements (15 mg/day) for 3 weeks failed to reduce urinary hydantoin-5-propionic acid.
Bisphosphoglycerate mutase (BPGM) is an enzyme unique to erythrocytes and placental cells.
BPGM is responsible for the catalytic synthesis of 2,3-Bisphosphoglycerate (2,3-BPG) from 1,3-BPG.
Bisphosphoglycerate has a mutase and a phosphatase function, but these are much less active, in contrast to its glycolitic cousin, phosphoglycerate mutase (PGM), which favors these two functions, but can also catalyze the synthesis of 2,3-BPG to a lesser extent.
Deficiencies of BPGM and bisphosphoglycerate phosphatase (BPGP) are associated with mild erythrocytosis due to absence of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG).
A non-steroidal anti-inflammatory agent (ANTI-INFLAMMATORY AGENTS, NON-STEROIDAL) similar in mode of action to INDOMETHACIN.
The "Cystic Fibrosis Action Plan" is a communication tool medical providers use to inform school staff of a patient's Cystic Fibrosis diagnosis and treatment protocol.
School staff uses this information to guide and authorize their treatment of the child's Cystic Fibrosis while at school.
The following information is included in the action plan: 1.
Patient information: demographics, school, grade, parent/guardian, emergency contacts, primary care provider/clinic, 2. Cystic Fibrosis description: signs/symptoms, 3.
Treatment protocol during school hours: medication orders (type medication, dosage amount and time), 4.
Additional notes/instructions: free text, and 5.
Acknowledgement: Authorization for administration of medication away from clinic, provider signature and date, parent/guardian authorization: signatures and dates consenting school to give medications.
Rifampicin (RIF) is a first line drug used to treat Mycobacterium tuberculosis (TB).
It inhibits transcription by binding with the rpoB encoded beta-subunit of the DNA-dependent RNA polymerase (RNAP).
The majority of the mutations across bacterial species occurs in the 81 bp region of cluster, also known as the rifampicin resistance determining region (RRDR).
The RRDR is surrounded by 12 amino acids, 11 of which have been linked to RIF mutations.
The mutations in the RRDR usually result in an amino acid substitution that has an associated compact side chain with a larger amino acid and compact side chain.
The inflexibility of rifampicin prevents it from being able to bind to the mutated beta subunit of RNAP.
A five-carbon sugar alcohol derived from XYLOSE by reduction of the carbonyl group.
It is as sweet as sucrose and used as a noncariogenic sweetener.
An abundant non-essential amino acid involved in many metabolic processes.
Synthesized from glutamic acid and ammonia, it is the principal carrier of nitrogen.
It is an important energy source for many cells.
Galactosylceramidase (or galactocerebrosidase) is an enzyme which removes galactose from ceramide derivatives (galactocerebrosides).
A deficiency is associated with Krabbe disease.
The FAH gene (Fanconi anemia, complementation group A) is located on chromosome 16q24.3.
The Fanconi anemia complementation group (FANC) currently includes FANCA, FANCB, FANCC, FANCD1 (also called BRCA2), FANCD2, FANCE, FANCF, FANCG, FANCI, FANCJ (also called BRIP1), FANCL, FANCM and FANCN (also called PALB2).
The previously defined group FANCH is the same as FANCA.
Fanconi anemia is a genetically heterogeneous recessive disorder characterized by cytogenetic instability, hypersensitivity to DNA crosslinking agents, increased chromosomal breakage, and defective DNA repair.
The members of the Fanconi anemia complementation group do not share sequence similarity; they are related by their assembly into a common nuclear protein complex.
This gene encodes the protein for complementation group A. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms.
Mutations in this gene are the most common cause of Fanconi anemia.
The LRRK2 gene (leucine-rich repeat kinase 2) is located on chromosome 12q12.
This gene is a member of the leucine-rich repeat kinase family and encodes a protein with an ankryin repeat region, a leucine-rich repeat (LRR) domain, a kinase domain, a DFG-like motif, a RAS domain, a GTPase domain, a MLK-like domain, and a WD40 domain.
The protein is present largely in the cytoplasm but also associates with the mitochondrial outer membrane.
Mutations in this gene have been associated with Parkinson disease-8.
Medium-chain acyl-CoA dehydrogenase (MCAD) deficiency is a condition that prevents the body from converting certain fats to energy, particularly during periods without food (fasting).
Signs and symptoms of MCAD deficiency typically appear during infancy or early childhood and can include vomiting, lack of energy (lethargy), and low blood sugar (hypoglycemia).
In rare cases, symptoms of this disorder first appear during adulthood.
People with MCAD deficiency are at risk for serious complications such as seizures, breathing difficulties, liver problems, brain damage, coma, and sudden death.
Problems related to MCAD deficiency can be triggered by periods of fasting or by illnesses such as viral infections.
This disorder is sometimes mistaken for Reye syndrome, a severe disorder that may develop in children while they appear to be recovering from viral infections such as chicken pox or flu.
Most cases of Reye syndrome are associated with the use of aspirin during these viral infections.
Candida kefyr (formerly Candida pseudotropicalis) has been a rarely pathogenic yeast, causing less that 1% of invasive Candida infections in one North American report.
However, it may be an emerging pathogen in patients with hematologic malignancies.
Its telomorphic form is currently recognized as Kluyveromyces marxianus .
Multiple Endocrine Neoplasia (MEN) is caused by mutations in the RET gene.
The RET gene is located on the long arm of chromosome 10 at position 11.2.
More than 25 mutations have been identified as causing type 2 MEN.
Most of these mutations change a single amino acid in the RET protein.
More than 90% of MEN type 2B is caused by the M918T mutation which replaces amino acid methionine with threonine at position 918.
MEN2B mutations result in overactive RET protein that can transmit signals without first attaching to growth factors outside the cell.
The overactive protein may trigger abnormal cell growth and division, leading to formation of endocrine tumors.
MEN2B mutations are found in 100% of the cases of medullary carcinoma of the thyroid and 50% of cases of pheochromocytoma, as well as with mucosal neuromas and Marfanoid body habitus.
The reverse ABO group includes identifying the patient's serum for naturally occuring antibodies against antigens on red blood cells.
An enzyme that catalyzes the conversion of ATP and phosphorylase b to ADP and phosphorylase a. .
Coryphaena hippurus (mahi mahi) also referred to as dolphinfish lives in tropical and subtropical waters between the latitudes 46 degrees north and 38 degrees south.
Coryphaena hippurus is known to be one of the fish to cause histamine poisoning.
Also known as scombroid fish poisoning, histamine poisoning occurs after eating fish with high concentrations of histamine.
The symptoms of histamine poisoning mimic those of an IgE-mediated allergic reaction and include nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, hives itching, red rash, and hypotension.
7-Hydroxyoctanoic acid is a normal metabolite of medium-chain fatty acid oxidation, and is excreted in the urine as 7-hydroxyoctanoyl-beta-D-glucuronide, and have been found slightly elevated in the urine of persons with abnormal fatty acid metabolism
A food, which may result in allergy symptoms in sensitized individuals.
Common names include yeast, baker's yeast, and brewer's yeast.
S. cerevisiae may induce symptoms of allergy, including allergic rhinitis, asthma, and atopic dermatitis, in sensitised individuals.
Hypersensitivity pneumonitis has been reported.
Rye (Secale cereale) is a grass grown extensively as a grain and forage crop.
It is a member of the wheat tribe (Triticeae) and is closely related to barley and wheat.
Rye grain is used for flour, rye bread, rye beer, some whiskies, some vodkas, and animal fodder.
It can also be eaten whole, either as boiled rye berries, or by being rolled, similar to rolled oats.
Rye should not be confused with Ryegrass which is used for lawns, pasture, and hay for livestock.
The Russian olive tree is a member of the family Eleagnaceae.
The tree is native to Europe and western Asia.
Although only sparse reports document sensitisation to Russian olive tree, anecdotal evidence suggests that asthma and hayfever are possible following exposure to pollen from this tree.
Prealbumin testing provides an assessment of nutritional status.
It helps monitor the response to nutritional support in acutely ill patients.
Prealbumin is useful because of its short half life of two days.
The A181V mutation is associated with Adefovir resistance
Azaleas are flowering shrubs and subgenus of Rhododendrons.
They contain a toxic compound, andromedotoxin (grayanotoxin), in the leaves and nectar, that is poisonous to humans and animals.
The toxin can also be present in honey made from the nectar and is known as "mad honey" and causes "mad honey disease".
Consumption of andromedotoxin-containing leaves, flowers or honey may cause symptoms ranging from dizziness, hypotension, and atrial-ventricular block.
Enumeration by direct count of viable, isolated bacterial, archaeal, or fungal CELLS or SPORES capable of growth on solid CULTURE MEDIA.
The method is used routinely by environmental microbiologists for quantifying organisms in AIR; FOOD; and WATER; by clinicians for measuring patients' microbial load; and in antimicrobial drug testing.
Beta-ureidopropionase is an enzyme involved in beta-alanine biosynthesis.
It is encoded by the UPB1 gene.
Mutations in this gene cause beta-ureidopropionase deficiency (BUPD), an inborn error of metabolism characterized by muscular hypotonia, dystonic movements, scoliosis, microcephaly and severe developmental delay.
Guanidinoacetate is the immediate precursor of creatine.
Guanidinoacetate methyltransferase (GAMT) is the enzyme responsible for converting guanidinoacetate to creatine, and GAMT deficiency causes is a rare, autosomal recessive disorder whose manifestations include seizures, developmental delay, learning difficulties, and autism.
Motor function is relatively spared.
GAMT deficiency leads to elevated levels of plasma and urine guanidinoacetate, and low plasma creatine and creatinine levels.
Elevated levels of guanidinoacetate in the brain are one cause of seizures in patients with GAMT deficiency.
The primary treatment is creatine supplementation, which may be combined with ornithine supplementation and arginine restriction.
Early diagnosis and treatment may prevent organ damage and preserve cognitive function.
If the diagnosis does not occur early and brain damage has already occurred at the time of diagnosis, creatine supplementation can still help control seizures and improve quality of life.
JWH-250 is considered a synthetic cannabinoid and a scheduled I controlled substance.
JWH stands for John W. Huffman, one of the inventors of the compound.
Lipids are a class of hydrocarbon -containing organic compounds essential in providing stored energy and organ protection within a living organism.
Lipids are categorized by the fact that they are soluble in nonpolar solvents (such as ether and chloroform) and are relatively insoluble in water.
Lipid molecules have these properties because they consist of mainly carbon.
Some lipids are used for energy storage, others serve as structural components of cellular membranes, and some are important hormones.
Although the term lipid is often used as a synonym for fat, the latter is in fact a subgroup of lipids called triglycerides.
Paternal sample received is an indicator of whether a specimen from the father was sent to the testing laboratory.
Paternal and maternal samples are relevant for prenatal fetal or postnatal testing for genetic disorders or paternity.
Macrolide antifungal antibiotic complex produced by Streptomyces noursei, S. aureus, and other Streptomyces species.
The biologically active components of the complex are nystatin A1, A2, and A3.
C. tetani produces a potent biological toxin, tetanospasmin, and is the causative agent of tetanus, a disease characterized by painful muscular spasms that can lead to respiratory failure and, in up to 40% of cases, death.
Pristanic acid (2,6,10,14-tetramethylpentadecanoic acid) is a terpenoid acid present at micromolar concentrations in the blood plasma of healthy individuals.
It is usually present in combination with phytanic acid.
In humans, pristanic acid is obtained from two sources: either directly from the diet or as the alpha oxidation product of phytanic acid.
At physiological concentrations pristanic acid is a natural ligand for PPARα.
In liver, pristanic acid is degraded by peroxisomal beta oxidation to propionyl-CoA. Together with phytanic acid, pristanic acid accumulates in several inherited disorders such as Zellweger syndrome.
Penciclovir (INN) is a guanine analogue antiviral drug used for the treatment of various herpesvirus infections.
It is a nucleoside analogue which exhibits low toxicity and good selectivity.
Because penciclovir is absorbed poorly when given orally (by mouth)
it is used more as a topical treatment, and is the active ingredient in the cold sore medications Denavir, Vectavir and Fenistil.
Famciclovir is a prodrug of penciclovir with improved oral bioavailability.
Creatine transport protein is encoded by the SLC6A8 gene, located on chromosome region Xq28, and is a sodium-dependent transporter that mediates the uptake of creatine into myocytes (muscle cells).
Myocytes cannot synthesize creatine and therefore rely on the creatine transporter.
Defects in the transporter cause cerebral creatine deficiency syndrome 1, an X-linked disorder characterized by significant cognitive impairment, behavioral abnormalities, and seizures.
Patients with this disorder have significantly decreased transporter activity.
Nitrous oxide is an inorganic inhaled anesthetic.
It has the fastest onset among inhalation agents but is the least potent and therefore often requires more than 1 minimum alveolar concentration (MAC).
The dosage of nitrous oxide being administered is set and monitored throughout general anesthesia.
One of the ANTI-ARRHYTHMIA AGENTS, it blocks SODIUM CHANNELS and slows conduction within the His-Purkinje system and myocardium.
Fescue is a temperate-climate grass native to northern Europe and western Asia.
It has been introduced and grows well in cool climates of the U.S., but is more common in Europe.
It has been introduced in similar climates worldwide.
It is a valuable pasture grass, used to a lesser extent for hay and as an all-purpose turf grass.
Meadow Fescue pollen is a common inducer of asthma, allergic rhinitis and allergic conjunctivitis
The BHD gene (folliculin) gene is located on chromosome 17p11.2.
This gene is located within the Smith-Magenis syndrome region on chromosome 17.
Mutations in this gene are associated with Birt-Hogg-Dube syndrome, which is characterized by fibrofolliculomas, renal tumors, lung cysts, and pneumothorax.
Alternative splicing of this gene results in two transcript variants encoding different isoforms.
Decanoic acid, or capric acid, is a saturated fatty acid.
Its formula is CH3(CH2)8COOH.
Salts and esters of decanoic acid are called decanoates.
The term capric acid arises from the Latin "capric" which pertains to goats due to their olfactory similarities.
Capric acid occurs naturally in coconut oil and palm kernel oil, as well as in the milk of various mammals and to a lesser extent in other animal fats.
A benzodiazepine that is used in the treatment of anxiety disorders.
Leptospira is a genus of spirochaete bacteria, including a small number of pathogenic and saprophytic species.
Leptospirosis (also known as Weil's syndrome, canicola fever and by other names) is caused by Leptospira, which can affect humans as well as other mammals, birds, amphibians, and reptiles.
As of 2012, Leptospira is divided into 20 species based on DNA hybridization studies.
Ocular melanoma is a rare cancer of the pigment cells in the eye.
The most common ocular melanoma of adults is uveal melanoma.
The uvea is the middle layer of the eye between the sclera and the retina.
Uveal melanoma can be difficult to treat due to the lack of early signs or symptoms of disease., and the finding of monosomy 3 was correlated with both the likelihood of metastatic disease as well as decreased survival.
The underlying reason for the association between chromosome 3 monosomy and metastases is not yet understood.
Bovine serum albumin is a powerful immunogen able to produce allergic reactions.
It is used during bone marrow transplantation and in vitro fertilization.
IgE-mediated hypersensitivity: positive skin tests and specific IgE against BSA.
Sensitization to BSA may develop following natural contact (eating meat, drinking cow's milk, exposure to animal epithelia, dander or saliva containing serum albumin cross-reactive with BSA)
Serum sickness-like reactions: IgG 1 mediated sensitization to BSA.
Dombrock system antigen, Do^a, appears to be poor stimulis and most examples are rarely are found as a single specificity in a serum; and when detected, are notorious for disappearing in vivo.
Antibodies within this system have been associated with weak to moderate transfusion reactions, but not with clinically defined cases of hemolytic disease of the newborn.
Recombinant non-glycosylated protein produced in an E. coli strain strain carrying a cloned cDNA encoding Olea europaea allergen Ole e 1
Benzonatate or 2,5,8,11,14,17,20,23,26-nonaoxaoctacosan-28-yl para-butylaminobenzoate is a non-narcotic oral antitussive (cough suppressant) with effects that last from 6 to 8 hours.
Being non-narcotic, benzonatate is not prone to abuse like some other cough medications such as codeine or dextromethorphan.
The ARSB gene (arylsulfatase B) is located on chromosome 5q14.1.
Arylsulfatase B encoded by this gene belongs to the sulfatase family.
The arylsulfatase B homodimer hydrolyzes sulfate groups of N-Acetyl-D-galactosamine, chondriotin sulfate, and dermatan sulfate.
The protein is targeted to the lysozyme.
Mucopolysaccharidosis type VI is an autosomal recessive lysosomal storage disorder resulting from a deficiency of arylsulfatase B.
Two alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms have been found for this gene.
An enterotoxin is a toxin released by a micro-organism in the lower Intestine.
The enterotoxin alters the permeability of the intestinal wall.
This causes water and electrolytes to leak into the intestinal tract, causing diarrhea.
The GCDH gene (glutaryl-CoA dehydrogenase) is located on chromosome 19p13.2.
The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the acyl-CoA dehydrogenase family.
It catalyzes the oxidative decarboxylation of glutaryl-CoA to crotonyl-CoA and CO(2) in the degradative pathway of L-lysine, L-hydroxylysine, and L-tryptophan metabolism.
It uses electron transfer flavoprotein as its electron acceptor.
The enzyme exists in the mitochondrial matrix as a homotetramer of 45-kD subunits.
Mutations in this gene result in the metabolic disorder glutaric aciduria type 1, which is also known as glutaric acidemia type I. Alternative splicing of this gene results in multiple transcript variants.
A related pseudogene has been identified on chromosome 12.
Oseltamivir, marketed as Tamiflu, is an antiviral drug, slows the spread of influenza (flu) virus between cells in the body by stopping the virus from chemically cutting ties with its host cell; median time to symptom alleviation is reduced by 0.5-1 day.
17-Hydroxypregnenolone, also known as 17-OH-PG, is a steroid hormone that is derived from cholesterol.
17-OH-PG is involved in the synthesis of cortisol, aldosterone and androstenedione in the adrenal glands.
17-OH-PG levels are measured to screen for congenital adrenal hyperplasia (CAH), a group of inherited disorders of the adrenal gland.
High levels of 17-OH-PG in the blood indicate cortisol and aldosterone are not being produced in normal levels.
A species of parasitic nematodes distributed throughout the Pacific islands that infests the lungs of domestic rats.
Human infection, caused by consumption of raw slugs and land snails, results in eosinophilic meningitis.
Asp f 6 has been shown to be recognised by IgE from ABPA patients but not from A. fumigatus-sensitised individuals, which result can be used to differentiate between these two groups of allergic patients.
A. fumigatus colonises its environment by the formation of hyphae.
Hyphae are found in the lungs of ABPA patients, but not in patients suffering from atopic asthma.
Asp f 6 is specifically expressed in hyphae, which might explain why an IgE response to Asp f 6 is specific for ABPA patients.
The ATP7A gene (ATPase, Cu++ transporting, alpha polypeptide) is located on chromosome Xq21.1.
This gene encodes a transmembrane protein that functions in copper transport across membranes.
This protein is localized to the trans Golgi network, where it is predicted to supply copper to copper-dependent enzymes in the secretory pathway.
It relocalizes to the plasma membrane under conditions of elevated extracellular copper, and functions in the efflux of copper from cells.
Mutations in this gene are associated with Menkes disease, X-linked distal spinal muscular atrophy, and occipital horn syndrome.
Alternatively-spliced transcript variants have been observed.
An enteral tube is used to deliver fluids and liquid food to patients who are unable to get enough nutrition from food or supplements, or are unable to safely eat or drink.
Enteral feeding tubes can deliver nutrition into either the stomach or the upper small intestine.
Nasogastric tubes are used most frequently but nasoduodenal or nasojejunal tubes can also be placed using endoscopic, radiological or surgical methods.
Gastronomy tubes are inserted through the abdominal wall directly into the stomach, usually by endoscopic procedures.
An individual patient's energy intake from all sources, for example, food, beverages, supplements, and via enteral and parenteral routes.
Eosinophil derived neurotoxin (EDN) is one of the eosinophil degranulation products that has been implicated in the patholphysiology of asthma.
It is a promising biomarker for the monitoring of asthma in both children and adults.
Elevated levels of EDN has been shown to be a promising marker for eosinophilic inflammation and EDN has also been reported as a potentially useful marker in other inflammatory conditions .
Enteroglucagon is a peptide hormone derived from preproglucagon.
It is a gastrointestinal hormone, secreted from mucosal cells primarily of the colon and terminal ileum.
It has 37 amino acids.
Enteroglucagon is released following ingestion of a mixed meal, and delays gastric emptying.
Mugwort is native to Europe and Asia, but is now also found throughout the eastern US.
It is rare, however, anywhere in the extreme north and south.
Mugwort sensitisation and allergy has been reported widely.
Mugwort pollen is a major cause of asthma, allergic rhinitis, and allergic conjunctivitis.
Exposure to Mugwort pollen contributes to the causation or exacerbation of the Oral Allergy Syndrome, eczema, urticaria; and anaphylaxis where pollen has contaminated a food, e.g., honey.
Occupational exposure among fishermen and in the fish industry.
Some allergen determinants are shared by members of the Crustacea group, such as shrimp, crab, crayfish, spiny lobster (langust).
Skin sensitivity to lobster has been reported.
The red gurnard, also known as the East Atlantic red gurnard, is a fish species of Triglidae family.
Bone age is typically measured in a child under age 18 using an x-ray of the hand and wrist bones.
Various methods are used to compute bone age by comparing the maturity of the bones to idealized standards.
These methods include the Greulich & Pyle (GP) Atlas, Tanner-Whitehouse 2nd edition (TW2) methods (20-bones and radius-ulna-short bones or "RUS"), Tanner-Whitehouse 3rd edition (TW3) and the Gilsanz & Ratibin (GR) Atlas.
Glutamate dehydrogenase is produced by all strains of Clostridium difficile, toxigenic and non-toxigenic.
The detection of GDH in a fecal specimen confirms the presence of C. difficile.
Argininosuccinic acid is a chemical compound that belongs to the class of the amino acids.
Some cells synthesize it from citrulline, aspartic acid and use it as a precursor for arginine in the urea cycle or Citrulline-NO cycle.
The enzyme that catalyzes the reaction is ASS.
Etizolam is a thienodiazepine which is chemically related to a class of substances known as benzodiazepines.
A species of PARVOVIRUS infecting cats with a highly contagious enteric disease.
Host range variants include mink enteritis virus, canine parvovirus (PARVOVIRUS, CANINE), and raccoon parvovirus.
After infecting their new hosts, many of these viruses have further evolved and are now considered distinct species.
A species of parasitic nematode widely distributed in tropical and subtropical countries.
The females and their larvae inhabit the mucosa of the intestinal tract, where they cause ulceration and diarrhea.
There are three primary types of pacemakers.
Single chamber pacemakers have a lead that attaches either to an atrium or ventricle; dual chamber has two leads where one attaches to an atrium and one to a ventricle; and biventricular has two leads where one is attached to each ventricle.
The order Enterobacterales consists of over 250 species of Gram-negative bacteria contained within seven families (Budviciaceae, Enterobacteriaceae, Erwiniaceae, Hafniaceae, Morganellaceae, Pectobacteriaceae, and Yersiniaceae) and many genera.
Enterobacterales was originally proposed in 2005 under the name "Enterobacteriales" but later reclassified in 2016 as Enterobacterales with the proposed seven families.
At that time, several genera that were formerly classified as Enterobacteriaceae were reclassified into new families.
Many of the genera and species within the order are associated with common health-care associated infections, including bloodstream infections (BSI).
Treatment for BSI and other infections caused by Gram-negative bacteria has become more complex with the emergence and spread of antimicrobial resistance in Enterobacterales, particularly Enterobacteriaceae.
Procoagulant phospholipids (PPLs), especially phosphatidylserine, are essential for the assembly of the coagulation complex (Mann et al, 1992), including tissue factor-factor VIIa complex, factor Ixa-factor VIIIa complex and factor Xa-factor Va complex, which leads ultimately to thrombin generation.
Platelet procoagulant activity is primarily due to surface exposure of anionic phospholipids, mainly phosphatidylserine, normally present in the cytoplasmic leaflet of the plasma membrane.
Membrane remodeling also releases microparticles (MPs), which are fragments released from stimulated or apoptotic cells.
MPs are rich in procoagulant phospholipids and increase procoagulant activity in many disease processes including; cardiovascular disorders, certain cancers, inflammatory syndromes, infectious diseases, obstetric complications, and others.
May be of value in: diagnostics, as a pre-thrombotic marker; prognostics, as an early marker for certain diseases; and therapeutics, as an indicator for monitoring of anticoagulant therapy.
Wuchereria bancrofti, Brugia malayi and Brugia timori are the three species of filaria that cause lymphatic filariasis in humans living in the tropics and sub-tropics.
Infection is spread from person to person by mosquito bites.
The adult worms live and reproduce in the human lymphatic system, creating millions of microscopic worms called microfilariae.
When a person who is infected is bitten by a mosquito, the mosquito becomes infected, and the microfilariae mature inside the mosquito.
When the mosquito bites another person, the larval worms are passed from the mosquito to the human and travel to the lymphatic system, where they grow into adult worms.
Most people with lymphatic filariasis are asymptomatic, and a few develop lymphedema, primarily in the legs, but also in the arms, breasts, and genitals.
People with lymphedema are more susceptible to bacterial infections of the skin and lymphatic system, which can lead to hardening and thickening of the skin, also known as elephantiasis.
Filarial infection can also cause tropical pulmonary eosinophilia syndrome.
Lymphatic filariasis primarily develops in people who have gotten mosquito bites in an endemic area over an extended period of time.
Studies have shown that different IgG isotypes may characterize different stages of infection.
IgG1, IgG2 and IgG3 are most common in asymptomatic patients, while IgG4 is a marker of active infection.
In addition, larval antigens may have a stronger IgG1 response, followed by IgG2 and IgG3, while IgG4 is the most common isotype found in response to adult filaria.
Thallium is the chemical element in the periodic table that has the symbol Tl and atomic number 81.
This soft gray malleable poor metal resembles tin but discolors when exposed to air.
Thallium is highly toxic and is used in rat poisons and insecticides but since it might also cause cancer (although the EPA does not class it as carcinogen), this use has been cut back or eliminated in many countries.
It is also used in infrared detectors.
It has even been used in some murders, even earning the nickname Inheritance powder alongside Arsenic.
HPV type 59 has been associated with low grade cervical abnormalities, cancer precursors, and anogenital cancers.
Tetrahydrofuran (THF) is a colorless, water-miscible organic liquid with low viscosity at standard temperature and pressure.
This heterocyclic compound has the chemical formula (CH2)4O. As one of the most polar ethers with a wide liquid range, it is a useful solvent.
Its main use, however, is as a precursor to polymers.
THF has an odor similar to its chemical cousin, diethyl ether, but is a much less potent anesthetic than diethyl ether.
The STK11 gene (serine/threonine kinase 11) is located on chromosome 19p13.3.
This gene, which encodes a member of the serine/threonine kinase family, regulates cell polarity and functions as a tumor suppressor.
Mutations in this gene have been associated with Peutz-Jeghers syndrome, an autosomal dominant disorder characterized by the growth of polyps in the gastrointestinal tract, pigmented macules on the skin and mouth, and other neoplasms.
Alternate transcriptional splice variants of this gene have been observed but have not been thoroughly characterized.
Ristocetin is an antibiotic, obtained from Nocardia lurida, previously used to treat staphylococcal infections.
It is no longer used clinically because of its toxicity.
It causes platelet agglutination and blood coagulation and is used to assay those functions in vitro, e.g. to diagnose von Willebrand disease or the Bernard-Soulier syndrome.
Platelet agglutination caused by ristocetin can occur only in the presence of von Willebrand factor, so if ristocetin is added to blood lacking the factor, it will not coagulate.
Ristocetin is also antibacterial.
Catalyzes the oxidation of GLUTATHIONE to GLUTATHIONE DISULFIDE in the presence of NADP+.
Deficiency in the enzyme is associated with HEMOLYTIC ANEMIA.
Formerly listed as .
Entropy is a measure of the depth of anesthesia.
State entropy uses the irregularity of the EEG signal in the 0.8 to 32 Hz frequency band to measure cerebral cortex activity, and response entropy uses the FEMG signal in the 0.8 to 47 Hz frequency band to measure cerebral cortex and facial muscle activity, respectively.
Typical values for patients undergoing general anesthesia are between 40 and 60 for either state or response entropy, and at these levels of entropy, the probability of patient accidental awareness is low.
These are proprietary measurements and the formulas are not available.
The only genus in the family ARENAVIRIDAE.
It contains two groups ARENAVIRUSES, OLD WORLD and ARENAVIRUSES, NEW WORLD, which are distinguished by antigenic relationships and geographic distribution.
Thallium is similar to lead and mercury in terms of its toxic properties.
Chronic exposure produces alopecia, peripheral neuopathy, seizures, and renal failure.
Acute poisoning results in nausea, vomiting, hematemesis, abdominal pain, diarrhea, confusion, coma, and death (in about 10% of patients).
Silver sulfadiazine (INN, or silvadene) is a topical antibacterial cream used to treat burns.
Studies have found that silver sulfadiazine may increase healing times.
Silver sulfadiazine is typically delivered in a 1% cream or aqueous suspension.
Brand names include Silvadene (a genericized trademark), Silverex, Silverol, Silvazine, Flamazine, Thermazene, BurnHeal, and SSD.
Japanese Hop is an annual or weakly perennial climber (climbing twining vine), growing 3 to 6m high.
It has deeply 5- to 7-lobed large leaves with serrate edges and rough surface, with pubescent underside, on a long petiole and prickly stems.
The flowers are green spikes.
Variegated forms are common.
Japanese Hop is a very frequent cause of symptoms of asthma and allergic rhinitis in sensitised individuals in autumn, in particular in the East.
Arylsulfatase C, also known as steroid sulfatase or steryl-sulfatase, primarily functions to convert steroid precursors to estrogen during pregnancy.
It is encoded by the STS gene, which is located on chromosome Xp22.31.
Deletion or mutation of the STS gene causes X-linked ichthyosis, a keratin disorder that causes exfoliation in the first few weeks after birth and later, in affected boys, large, polygonal, dark brown scales, especially on the neck, extremities, trunk, and buttocks.
Arenavirus is a genus of virus that infects rodents and occasionally humans.
At least eight Arenaviruses are known to cause human disease.
The diseases derived from Arenaviruses range in severity.
Aseptic meningitis, a severe human disease that causes inflammation covering the brain and spinal cord, can arise from the Lymphocytic choriomeningitis virus (LCMV) infection.
Hemorrhagic fever syndromes are derived from infections such Guanarito virus (GTOV), Junin virus (JUNV), Lassa virus (LASV) causing Lassa fever, Machupo virus (MACV), Sabia virus (SABV), or Whitewater Arroyo virus (WWAV).
Arenaviruses are divided into two groups; the Old World or New World.
The differences between these groups are distinguished geographically and genetically.
Because of the epidemiological association with rodents, some arenaviruses and bunyaviruses are designated as Roboviruses.
Deep transitional epithelial cells may have various shapes but they mostly ovoid or cube-like appearance, with one well evident nucleus
In oval cells this is in a central location, while in club-like cells it is usually peripheral.
The diameter of these cells may be quite variable, from about 10 µm (for oval cells) up to more than 30 µm (for club-like cells).
Cells from the deep layers are found in the urine in urological conditions which damage the uroepithelium in all its thickness such as urolithiasis, bladder carcinoma or hydronephrosis.
The superficial transitional cells are much larger than those of the deep layers, their size ranging from about 17 to 43 µm.
Their shape varies from round to oval, with a round or oval nucleus in a central or slightly off-center location.
At times a clear peri-nuclear halo can be seen.
Often, they also appear in clumps.
Cells of the superficial layers are much more frequent than deep transitional cells, since even mild injuries to the uroepithelium can cause their detachment from the uroepithelial mucosa.
Cystitis is the condition most frequently associated with the finding of these cells in the urine.
3,4-Dihydroxyhydrocinnamate (or Dihydrocaffeic acid, DHCA) is a metabolite product of the hydrogenation of caffeoylquinic acids, occurring in normal human biofluids, with potent antioxidant properties.
DHCA has been detected in human plasma following coffee ingestion, and is increased with some dietary sources, such as after ingestion of phenolic constituents of artichoke leaf extract.
Polyphenol-rich foods such as vegetables and fruits have been shown to significantly improve platelet function in ex vivo studies in humans.
Its antioxidant activity has been tested to reduce ferric iron in the ferric reducing antioxidant power (FRAP) assay, and it has been suggested that its catechol structure conveys the antioxidant effect in plasma and in erythrocytes.
The CACT gene (solute carrier family 25 (carnitine/acylcarnitine translocase), member 20) gene is located on chromosome 3p21.31.
This gene product is one of several closely related mitochondrial-membrane carrier proteins that shuttle substrates between cytosol and the intramitochondrial matrix space.
This protein mediates the transport of acylcarnitines into mitochondrial matrix for their oxidation by the mitochondrial fatty acid-oxidation pathway.
Mutations in this gene are associated with carnitine-acylcarnitine translocase deficiency, which can cause a variety of pathological conditions such as hypoglycemia, cardiac arrest, hepatomegaly, hepatic dysfunction and muscle weakness, and is usually lethal in new born and infants.
Fibroblast growth factor 23, or FGF23, is primarily produced in bone and helps regulate phosphate and vitamin D metabolism by binding to receptors on renal tubular cells.
It is produced as a 251-amino acid precursor consisting of a signal peptide, N-terminal domain, and C-terminal domain.
The bioactive form of FGF23 consists of the N- and C-terminal domains, after the signal peptide is removed, and is also called the "intact" form.
Intact FGF23 is cleaved into N-terminal and C-terminal fragments, which are no longer active, though the C-terminal fragment may compete with intact FGF23 for renal tubule receptors and play a role in regulating overall FGF23 activity.
The production of FGF23 is regulated by a variety of factors, including calcium and phosphate levels, 1,25 dihydroxyvitamin D, parathyroid hormone, and iron deficiency.
Elevated FGF23 levels are associated with chronic kidney disease as well as cardiovascular disease.
Allyl alcohol (IUPAC name: prop-2-en-1-ol) is an organic compound with the structural formula CH2=CHCH2OH.
Like many alcohols, is a water soluble, colorless liquid, but it is more toxic than typical small alcohols.
Allyl alcohol is used as a raw material for the production of glycerol, but is used as a precursor to many specialized compounds.
Allyl alcohol is the smallest representative of the allylic alcohols.
Cytochrome P450-4F2 (CYP4F2; ), a member of the cytochrome P450 mixed-function oxidase system, is involved in the metabolism of a number of clinically relevant substrates in current clinical use.
Genetic variations in CYP4F2 can affect the response (i.e., efficacy or toxicity) to drugs and other compounds metabolized by CYP4F2 and selection of alternative dosing or agents may be necessary in individuals with specific CYP4F2 genetic variations.
Two small peptide chains removed from the N-terminal segment of the alpha chains of fibrinogen by the action of thrombin during the blood coagulation process.
Each peptide chain contains 18 amino acid residues.
In vivo, fibrinopeptide A is used as a marker to determine the rate of conversion of fibrinogen to fibrin by thrombin.
Creatinine or creatine anhydride, is a breakdown product of creatine phosphate in muscle.
The loss of water molecule from creatine results in the formation of creatinine.
It is transferred to the kidneys by blood plasma, whereupon it is eliminated by glomular filtration and partial tubular excretion.
Creatinine is usually produced at a fairly constant rate and measuring its serum level is a simple test.
A rise in blood creatinine levels is observed only with marked damage to functioning nephrons; therefore this test is not suitable for detecting early kidney disease.
Creatine and creatinine are metabolized in the kidneys, muscle, liver and pancreas.
The ALDH3A2 gene (aldehyde dehydrogenase 3 family member A2) is located on chromosome 17p11.2.
Aldehyde dehydrogenase isozymes are thought to play a major role in the detoxification of aldehydes generated by alcohol metabolism and lipid peroxidation.
This gene product catalyzes the oxidation of long-chain aliphatic aldehydes to fatty acid.
Mutations in the gene cause Sjogren-Larsson syndrome.
Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
A species of gram-negative bacteria found in the human genitourinary tract (urogenital system), oropharynx, and anal canal.
Serovars 1, 3, 6, and 14 have been reclassed into a separate species ureaplasma parvum.
Pregnancy associated plasma protein A (PAPPA), also known as pappalysin 1, is used in screening for Down syndrome and other fetal disorders.
A pea is the small, edible round green bean which grows in a pod on the leguminous vine Pisum sativum, or in some cases to the immature pods.
This legume is cooked as a vegetable in many cultures.
Several other seeds of the family Fabaceae, most of them round, are also called peas; this article deals with the species Pisum sativum and its cultivars.
The pea plant is an annual plant, with a lifecycle of a year.
The average pea weighs between 0.1 and 0.36 grams.
Peas are a cool-season vegetable crop.
The seeds may be planted as soon as the soil temperature reaches 10 °C, with the plants growing best at temperatures of 13 °C to 18 °C.
They do not thrive in the summer heat of warmer temperate and lowland tropical climates, but do grow well in cooler high altitude tropical areas.
Many cultivars reach maturity about 60 days after planting.
Peas grow best in slightly acid, well-drained soils.
Peas have both low-growing and vining cultivars.
Chromium is a chemical element in the periodic table that has the symbol Cr and atomic number 24.
Examination of pupillary response to light includes evaluating whether each eye individually reacts as well as the response of each eye in relation to the other.
The oxygen extraction ratio is the patient's oxygen consumption divided by oxygen delivered over a given period of time.
Acetyl fentanyl is an illicitly synthesized derivative of fentanyl with no legitimate medical use or legitimate production.
Acetyl fentanyl is reported to be 5 times more potent than heroin and has been directly linked to over a dozen overdose fatalities as of July 2013.
In response, the CDC issued a health advisory for acetyl fentanyl recommending increased testing vigilance to identify acetyl fentanyl use.
JWH-122 is considered a synthetic cannabinoid and a scheduled I controlled substance.
JWH stands for John W. Huffman, one of the inventors of the compound.
Allo-Isoleucine is a metabolic marker that is a stereoisomer.
It is increased in Maple Syrup Urine Disease.
Lysine is one of the 20 amino acids normally found in proteins.
With its 4-aminobutyl side-chain, it is classified as a basic amino acid, along with arginine and histidine.
It is an essential amino acid, and the human nutritional requirement is 1€"1.5 g daily.
Interstitial collagenase (matrix metalloproteinase 1, MMP-1) is a protein encoded by the MMP1 gene.
MMP-1 is involved in the breakdown of extracellular matrix in normal physiological processes, such as embryonic development, reproduction, and tissue remodeling, as well as in disease processes, such as arthritis and metastasis.
Specifically, MMP-1 breaks down the interstitial collagens, types I, II, and III, and is thought to be important in rheumatoid arthritis and osteoarthritis.
2-Methylpropyl methylphosphonate (VX acid) a metabolite of the chemical warfare nerve agent VX, which is human-made, odorless, and tasteless.
Nerve agents are the most toxic and rapidly acting of the known chemical warfare agents, and are similar to organophosphate pesticides in terms of how they work and what kinds of harmful effects they cause-but much more potent.
VX is the most potent of all nerve agents.
Compared with the nerve agent sarin, VX is considered to be much more toxic by entry through the skin and somewhat more toxic by inhalation.
VX is not found naturally in the environment and the only known use of VX is chemical warfare.
Mild or moderately exposed people usually recover completely.
Severely exposed people are not likely to survive.
Clostridium difficile (CD) infections in hospitals across the United States, Canada and Europe experienced an enormous increase between 2000 and 2006.
The pathogen that was found to cause this outbreak was the strain of CD determined by restriction endonuclease analysis (REA) to be toxin type III, restriction endonuclease analysis (REA) group B1; by pulsed-field gel electrophoresis as North American pulsed-field type NAP1; and by polymerase chain reaction (PCR) ribotyping as type 027.
The strain is identified as Clostridium difficile BI/NAP1/027 or NAP1.
The NAP1 strain of CD produces increased levels of three toxins, the usual toxins A and B, and a binary toxin.
A mutation of the toxin A and B suppressor gene tcdC may explain the increased production of toxin.
It is also strongly resistant to treatment with fluoroquinolone antibiotics.
CD NAP1 is not a new strain of CD.
It was isolated between 1984 and 1992 and is identical to the strain isolated is the 2000s, except that the original CD NAP1 strain was not resistant to the new fluoroquinolone drugs of the time, which included gatifloxacin and moxifloxacin.
Risk factors for infection with CD NAP1 include advanced age, hospitalization, and exposure to antibiotics, notably fluoroquinolones and cephalosporins.
The elderly are especially vulnerable to infection, and have a 30-day mortality rate of more than 5%.
Tacrolimus (also known as FK-506 or Prograf) is a macrolide isolated from the culture broth of a strain of Streptomyces tsukubaensis.
It has strong immunosuppressive properties and is commonly used to prevent allograft rejection in transplant recipients.
One of its modes of action is to prevent T-lymphocyte activation.
A water-soluble vitamin of the B complex occurring in various animal and plant tissues.
It is required by the body for the formation of coenzymes NAD and NADP.
It has PELLAGRA-curative, vasodilating, and antilipemic properties.
The ammonium cation is a positively charged polyatomic ion of the chemical formula N H 4 + and a molecular mass of 18.04, resulting from protonation of ammonia (NH3).
Ammonium and aminium are also general names for positively charged or protonated substituted amines and quaternary ammonium cations N+R4, where one or more hydrogen atoms are replaced by organic radical groups (which could be symbolized as R).
Osmolality is the concentration of dissolved substances contained in bodily fluids.
An osmolality test can be conducted by measuring the number of particles per kilogram in a sample of fluid (blood, urine, or stool).
This test is performed in order to evaluate kidney function and the body's electrolyte/water balance.
Typically, osmolality is tested if an individual shows signs of low blood sodium concentration (hyponatremia), alcohol poisoning, an increase/decrease in urine, or chronic diarrhea.
When analyzing osmolality, the following particles can be observed in the fluids: sodium, potassium, chlorine, urea, and glucose.
Although osmolality tests are able to indicate a water imbalance, the test alone can be inconclusive as to which particular solute is the cause of the health problem.
a-lactalbumin (Alpha-lactalbumin) (ALA) is one of the major allergens in Cow's milk and represents about 25% of Lactoserum (Whey) proteins and approximately 5% of Cow's milk protein.
A trypsin-like enzyme of spermatozoa which is not inhibited by alpha 1 antitrypsin.
The GNAQ (G protein subunit alpha q) gene is located on chromosome 9 at 9q21.2.
This gene encodes a guanine nucleotide-binding protein.
The encoded protein, an alpha subunit in the Gq class, couples a seven-transmembrane domain receptor to activation of phospolipase C-beta.
Mutations at this locus have been associated with problems in platelet activation and aggregation.
A related pseudogene exists on chromosome 2.
Somatic mutations in GNAQ have been found in approximately 50% of uveal melanomas, with the majority at codon 209 (Q209) within exon 5 of the gene.
(species) is a group of plants with medicinal properties.
The genus Baccharis includes more than 500 species in the Asteraceae family across South and Central America.
Medicinal teas are prepared from aerial parts of this shrub.
For example, the plant Baccharis trimera D.C., commonly known as "carqueja", contains flavonoids, diterpenes and triterpenes, and is often used to treat skin diseases, ulcers, anemia, diabetes, malaria, inflammatory reactions, and hepatic diseases.
An esterase is a hydrolase enzyme that splits esters into an acid and an alcohol in a chemical reaction with water called hydrolysis.
A wide range of different esterases exist that differ in their substrate specificity, their protein structure, and their biological function.
An appropriate reference standard of energy intake necessary for an individual patient.
This reference standard base is then compared to the patient's estimated total energy intake and used to develop the nutrition prescription.
Beta-Cortol is a normal androgen metabolite present in adults.
It has been found in the urine of infants as well.
Beta-Cortol is the 5b enantiomer of beta-allocortol.
Beta-cortol levels are significantly higher in premenopausal women with leiomyomas than in age-matched healthy premenopausal control women.
Uterine leiomyomas are tumors closely associated with estrogen levels and it has been noted that the development of leiomyomas depends on the condition of menstruation, perimenopause and pregnancy., ,, ,
A hemostatic disorder characterized by a poor anticoagulant response to activated protein C (APC) which increases the risk of a clotting disorder.
The activated form of Factor V (Factor Va) is more slowly degraded by activated protein C. Factor V Leiden mutation (R506Q) is the most common cause of APC resistance.
Human neutrophil peptides (HNPs), also known as alpha defensins, are antimicrobial peptides released by activated neutrophils in response to infection.
HNP-1 and HNP-2 are encoded by the DEFA1 gene, and HNP-3 is encoded by DEFA3 gene.
All three peptides are nearly identical; they only differ by the first amino acid in their sequence.
HNPs have antibacterial, fungicide and antiviral activities.
They have been extensively studied as a biomarker in various diseases such as infections, atherosclerosis, rheumatic diseases, preeclampsia, and cancer.
HNP synovial fluid proteins are used as a diagnostic biomarker for periprosthetic joint infection (PJI).
Vancomycin is a tricyclic glycopeptide antibiotic.
It is used parenterally to treat septicemia, ;neumonie, cellulitis, endocarditis, and methicillin-resistant S aureus meningitis.
It is used orally to treat Clostridium difficile pseudomembranous colitis.
Adverse drug reactions to vancomycin include nephrotoxicity, ototoxicity, and hematologic toxicity.
Vancomycin is also known to cause IgE-mediated reactions including anaphylaxis.
A species of protozoa that is the causal agent of falciparum malaria (MALARIA, FALCIPARUM).
It is most prevalent in the tropics and subtropics.
The LDLR gene (low density lipoprotein receptor) is located on chromosome 19p13.2.
The low density lipoprotein receptor (LDLR) gene family consists of cell surface proteins involved in receptor-mediated endocytosis of specific ligands.
Low density lipoprotein (LDL) is normally bound at the cell membrane and taken into the cell ending up in lysosomes where the protein is degraded and the cholesterol is made available for repression of microsomal enzyme 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme A (HMG CoA) reductase, the rate-limiting step in cholesterol synthesis.
At the same time, a reciprocal stimulation of cholesterol ester synthesis takes place.
Mutations in this gene cause the autosomal dominant disorder, familial hypercholesterolemia.
Alternate splicing results in multiple transcript variants.
Found in most mature, circulating T-cells Associated with most T-cell neoplasms that express CD3
Trichophyton fungi inhabit the soil, humans and animals, different species preferring different environments.
Most common are Trichophyton mentagrophytes, Trichophyton rubrum, Trichophyton schoenleinii, Trichophyton tonsurans, Trichophyton verrucosum, and Trichophyton violaceum.
Some species are cosmopolitan.
Others have a restricted geographic distribution.
Trichophyton concentricum, for example, is endemic on Pacific Islands, Southeast Asia, and Central America.
Trichophyton is one of the leading causes of hair, skin, and nail infections in humans.
Fungal infections of the skin, nails or hair are extremely common and often caused by dermatophyte fungi of the genus Trichophyton.
classically induce delayed-type, or cell-mediated, hypersensitivity, but a unique feature of Trichophyton allergens is the ability of the same antigen to elicit immediate-type hypersensitivity reactions as well
The FBXW7 (F-box and WD repeat domain containing 7) gene is located on chromosome 4 at 4q31.3.
This gene encodes a member of the F-box protein family which is characterized by an approximately 40 amino acid motif, the F-box.
The F-box proteins constitute one of the four subunits of ubiquitin protein ligase complex called SCFs (SKP1-cullin-F-box), which function in phosphorylation-dependent ubiquitination.
The F-box proteins are divided into 3 classes: Fbws containing WD-40 domains, Fbls containing leucine-rich repeats, and Fbxs containing either different protein-protein interaction modules or no recognizable motifs.
The protein encoded by this gene was previously referred to as FBX30, and belongs to the Fbws class; in addition to an F-box, this protein contains 7 tandem WD40 repeats.
This protein binds directly to cyclin E and probably targets cyclin E for ubiquitin-mediated degradation.
Mutations in this gene are detected in ovarian and breast cancer cell lines, implicating the gene's potential role in the pathogenesis of human cancers.
Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
Quercus ilex, the Holm Oak or Holly Oak is a large evergreen oak native to the Mediterranean region.
Beta-cortolone is a corticosteroid.
Corticosteroids are a class of steroid hormones that are produced in the adrenal cortex and are transformed mainly by cytochrome P450 enzymes.
Endogenous corticosteroids can be classified.
As gluco- or mineralo-corticosteroids, many of which are intimately.
Related with biological enzyme activities.
A herbicide is a pesticide used to kill unwanted plants.
Selective herbicides kill specific targets while leaving the desired crop relatively unharmed.
Some of these act by interfering with the growth of the weed and are often based on plant hormones.
Herbicides used to clear waste ground are nonselective and kill all plant material with which they come into contact.
Some plants produce natural herbicides, such as the genus Juglans (walnuts).
Herbicides are widely used in agriculture and in landscape turf management.
They are applied in total vegetation control (TVC) programs for maintenance of highways and railroads.
Smaller quantities are used in forestry, pasture systems, and management of areas set aside as wildlife habitat.
Sulfonamide is the basis of several groups of drugs.
The original antibacterial sulfonamides (sometimes called simply sulfa drugs) are synthetic antimicrobial agents that contain the sulfonamide group.
Some sulfonamides are also devoid of antibacterial activity, e.g., the anticonvulsant sultiame.
The sulfonylureas and thiazide diuretics are newer drug groups based on the antibacterial sulfonamides.
Sulfa allergies are common, hence medications containing sulfonamides are prescribed carefully.
It is important to make a distinction between sulfa drugs and other sulfur-containing drugs and additives, such as sulfates and sulfites, which are chemically unrelated to the sulfonamide group, and do not cause the same hypersensitivity reactions seen in the sulfonamides.
JWH-073 is a synthetic cannabinoid from the naphthoylindole family, which acts as a cannabinoid agonist at both the CB1 and CB2 receptors.
Research has shown that the parent compound is extensively metabolized prior to excretion and, as a result, present at very low levels in urine samples.
Its metabolites are thought to be better targets for assays.
JWH-073 has been shown to produce behavioral effects very similar to Delta-9-THC.
Ornidazole is a drug that cures some protozoan infections.
It is used by the poultry industry.
It has been investigated for use in Crohn's disease after bowel resection.
Stenotrophomonas maltophilia is an aerobic, nonfermentative, Gram-negative bacterium.
It is an uncommon bacterium and human infection is difficult to treat.
Initially classified as Pseudomonas maltophilia, S. maltophilia was also grouped in the genus Xanthomonas before eventually becoming the type species of the genus Stenotrophomonas in 1993.
S. maltophilia are slightly smaller than other members of the genus.
They are motile due to polar flagella and grow well on MacConkey agar producing pigmented colonies.
S. maltophilia are catalase-positive, oxidase-negative (which distinguishes them from most other members of the genus) and have a positive reaction for extracellular DNase.
S. maltophilia is ubiquitous in aqueous environments, soil and plants, including water, urine, or respiratory secretions; it has also been used in biotechnology applications.
In immunocompromised patients, S. maltophilia can lead to nosocomial infections.
Norovirus (NV) is a non-enveloped, single-stranded RNA virus that belongs to the Caliciviridae family.
It was previously known as the 'Norwalk-like virus'.
Of the six known genogroups of NV, only three are known to infect humans and include GI, GII, and GIV.
Within these three genogroups 25 genotypes have been discovered, which is why people can be infected multiple times throughout their lives.
Infection with NV causes inflammation of the stomach and intestines which leads to non-bloody diarrhea, vomiting, nausea, stomach pain, fever, headache, and body aches.
Symptoms persist for 1-3 days, but NV can be found in stool samples of infected people for up to two weeks after symptoms subside.
The virus is highly contagious and is transmitted by the fecal-oral route, by contact with infected people, and by contact with contaminated surfaces or substances.
NV is the primary cause of food-related illness in the United States.
The most common genotype of NV that is responsible for outbreaks since 2002 is GII.4.
NV spreads quickly in closed spaces such as daycare centers, nursing homes, schools, and cruise ships.
Diagnostic tests for NV include those that detect the viral RNA or a viral antigen in stool.
See I1rr consistency notes #1 and #2.
DQB1*0602 is commonly linked to DQA1*0102 to form 6.2 haplotype.
DQ6.2 and is common from Central Asia into Western Europe, *0602 is also linked to DQA1*0103 in parts of Asia.
Lactate is produced via the enzyme lactate dehydrogenase(LDH) during fermentation.
Elevated urine lactic acid levels are found in patients with multiple carboxylase deficiency, lactic acidosis, dihydrolipoyl dehydrogenase deficiency, PDH complex (E1, E2,E3),oxidative phosphorylation and respiratory chain defects (e.g., MERRF, MELAS, Kearns-Sayre), Crebs acid cycle defects, gluconeogenesis defects (pyruvate carboxylase, fructose-1,6-dihphosphatase, glycogen storage I disorder), short-branched chain acyl-CoA DH deficiency, severe MAD deficiency, VLCAD deficiency, GA I ,other organic acidurias (MMA,PA,IVA), citrullinemia, glycerol kinase deficiency, HMG-CoA lyase deficiency, or EMA aciduria.
(Information from: Kumps A, Duez P, Mardens Y. Metabolic, Nutritional, Iatrogenic, and Artifactual Sources of Urinary Organic Acids: A Comprehensive Table.
The PKD2 gene (polycystic kidney disease 2 (autosomal dominant)) is located on chromosome 4q22.1.
This gene encodes a member of the polycystin protein family.
The encoded protein is a multi-pass membrane protein that functions as a calcium permeable cation channel, and is involved in calcium transport and calcium signaling in renal epithelial cells.
This protein interacts with polycystin 1, and they may be partners in a common signaling cascade involved in tubular morphogenesis.
Mutations in this gene are associated with autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease type 2.
Trimethyllysine (N6,N6,N6-Trimethyl-L-lysine) is a methylated derivative of the amino acid lysine.
It is a component of histone proteins, a precursor of carnitine and a coenzyme of fatty acid oxidation.
N6,N6,N6-Trimethyl-L-lysine residues are found in a number of proteins and are generated by the action of S-adenosyl-L-methionine on exposed lysine residues.
When trimethyllysine is released from cognate proteins via proteolysis, it serves as a precursor for carnitine biosynthesis.
Mitochondrial 6-N-trimethyllysine dioxygenase converts 6-N-trimethyllysine to 3-hydroxy-6-N-trimethyllysine as the first step for carnitine biosynthesis.
Because the subsequent carnitine biosynthesis enzymes are cytosolic, 3-hydroxy-6-N-trimethyllysine must be transported out of the mitochondria by a putative mitochondrial 6-N-trimethyllysine/3-hydroxy-6-N-trimethyllysine transporter system.
Plasma -N-trimethyllysine concentrations are significantly lower in systemic carnitine deficiency patients compared to normal individuals, but no significant difference in urinary -N-trimethyllysine excretion is seen between the two groups.
Whether the electrical activity of the atrium has been captured by the pacemaker, meaning that the pacemaker is initiating depolarization.
Lima bean is a legume.
Its seed is eaten as a vegetable.
It is of Andean and Mesoamerican origin.
The genus Phaseolus includes Lima, garden, snap, string, navy and pinto beans.
Lima bean may induce symptoms of food allergy in sensitised individuals, although this is uncommon.
Optical coherence tomography (OCT) is a non-invasive imaging technique that provides an in vivo, cross-sectional view of the retina.
There are 6 retinal layers viewable with OCT: the nerve fiber layer (NFL), the inner plexiform layer and ganglion cell layer (IPL+GCL), the inner nuclear layer (INL), the outer plexiform layer (OPL), the outer nuclear layer and photoreceptor inner segments (ONL+PIS), and photoreceptor outer segments (POS).
OCT uses low-coherence interferometry to provide very accurate cross-sectional images.
Two forms of OCT are time domain and spectral domain.
Spectral domain has replaced the former because of its speed (20,000+ scans per second to avoid motion artifacts) and high resolution, and it can both visualize and measure the thickness of the retinal pigment epithelium and the nerve fiber layer adjacent to the optic disc
AB-CHMINACA hydroxycyclohexyl and AB-CHMINACA butanoate are metabolites of AB-CHMINACA (N--1--1H-indazole-3-carboxamide), an indazole-based synthetic cannabinoid that shows high affinity for cannabinoid CB1 and CB2 receptors.
Synthetic cannabinoids interact with the same brain receptors as THC (the active drug present in marijuana) and have been demonstrated to produce similar effects.
The drug is typically sprayed on botanical material and smoked, although it can be ingested in liquid or powder form.
Products containing this drug are sold under a wide variety of names including (but not limited to)
Spice, Potpourri, Smoke, K2, Zombie, Kush, and Cloud 10.
Volume of circulating ERYTHROCYTES.
It is usually measured by RADIOISOTOPE DILUTION TECHNIQUE.
The SERPING1 gene (serpin peptidase inhibitor, clade G (C1 inhibitor), member 1) is located on chromosome 11q12.1.
This gene encodes a highly glycosylated plasma protein involved in the regulation of the complement cascade.
Its protein inhibits activated C1r and C1s of the first complement component and thus regulates complement activation.
Deficiency of this protein is associated with hereditary angioneurotic oedema (HANE).
Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding the same isoform.
An appropriate reference standard of protein intake necessary for an individual patient.
This reference standard base is then compared to the patient's estimated total protein intake and used to develop the nutrition prescription.
Dihydrofolate reductase (DHFR) is an enzyme that changes dihydrofolate to tetrahydrofolate, required for the synthesis of purines, thymidylic acid, and certain amino acids.
Due to its critical function, DHFR is found in all organisms.
In humans it is encoded by the DHFR gene, and can be the target of drugs such as methotrexate used to treat certain neoplasms and inflammatory diseases.
In bacteria, the bacterial DHFR enzyme is targeted by synthetic antibiotics such as trimethoprim.
The chromosomal version of the bacterial gene (commonly folA) is sometimes overridden by trimethoprim-resistant versions present on mobile elements.
Mutations of DHFR resulted in widespread resistance to trimethoprim.
The dfrA class of genes are found to be the largest family of mobile trimethoprim antibiotic resistance genes. ,
The HYAL1 gene (hyaluronoglucosaminidase 1) is located on chromosome 3p21.31.
This gene encodes a lysosomal hyaluronidase.
Hyaluronidases intracellularly degrade hyaluronan, one of the major glycosaminoglycans of the extracellular matrix.
Hyaluronan is thought to be involved in cell proliferation, migration and differentiation.
This enzyme is active at an acidic pH and is the major hyaluronidase in plasma.
Mutations in this gene are associated with mucopolysaccharidosis type IX, or hyaluronidase deficiency.
The gene is one of several related genes in a region of chromosome 3p21.3 associated with tumor suppression.
Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
Cyclohexane is a cycloalkane with the molecular formula C6H12.
Cyclohexane is used as a nonpolar solvent for the chemical industry, and also as a raw material for the industrial production of adipic acid and caprolactam, both of which are intermediates used in the production of nylon.
On an industrial scale, cyclohexane is produced by reacting benzene with hydrogen.
Due to its unique chemical and conformational properties, cyclohexane is also used in labs in analysis and as a standard.
Castanea sativa is a species of the flowering plant family Fagaceae, the tree and its edible seeds are referred to by several common names such Sweet Chestnut or Marron.
Originally native to southeastern Europe and Asia Minor, it is now widely dispersed throughout Europe.
The trees are hardy, long lived and well known, especially for its chestnuts which are used as an ingredient in cooking.
b-lactoglobulin (Beta-lactoglobulin) (BLG) is one of the major allergens in Cow's milk.
BLG is the most abundant protein in Whey, accounting for 50% of total protein in the lactoserum fraction and approximately 10% of Cow's milk.
Inhalation challenge (bronchoprovocation) tests include direct agents (e.g., histamine and methacholine), indirect agents (e.g., exercise, cold air, and AMP), pharmacologic and other methods.
Such challenge tests are performed to assess the cause and severity of asthma in patients.
Direct bronchoprovocation challenge, such a methacholine, are most frequently performed and act directly on a specific airway smooth muscle receptor.
However, recent studies have suggested that indirect agents are highly specific for asthma and may have greater clinical relevance.
Iinhalation challenge test reports may contain information related to the testing procedure, results (spirometry readings) and interpretation.
The major hormone derived from the thyroid gland.
Thyroxine is synthesized via the iodination of tyrosine (monoiodotyrosine) and the coupling of iodotyrosine (diiodotyrosine) in thyroglobulin.
Thyroxine is separated from thyroglobulin by proteolysis and released in the blood.
Thyroxine is peripherally deiodinated to form triiodothyronine which exerts broad stimulatory effects on cell metabolism.
A broad-spectrum semisynthetic antibiotic similar to ampicillin except that its resistance to gastric acid permits higher serum levels with oral administration.
Very long-chain acyl-CoA dehydrogenase (VLCAD) deficiency is a condition that prevents the body from converting certain fats to energy, particularly during periods without food (fasting).
VLCAD deficiency is cause by mutations in the ACADVL gene, which are inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern.
Signs and symptoms of VLCAD deficiency typically appear during infancy or early childhood and can include low blood sugar (hypoglycemia), lack of energy (lethargy), and muscle weakness.
Affected individuals are also at risk for serious complications such as liver abnormalities and life-threatening heart problems.
When symptoms begin in adolescence or adulthood, they tend to be milder and usually do not involve the heart.
Histoplasmosis capsulatum is a dimorphic fungal pathogen with filamentous or yeast forms,depending on nutritional factors and temperature.
The M antigen is a well-known glycoprotein used as a diagnostic antigen for acute histoplasmosis as it induces the first precipitins during disease.
Monoclonal antibodies (mAbs) to the M antigen have been found to modify the pathogenesis of histoplasmosis.
Given the shortcomings of current therapies, the administration of mAbs is being investigated.
The H band is less commonly seen than the M band and is indicative of chronic or severe acute infections with H capsulatum.
H. capsulatum is found in nature primarily as a saprophytic mold.
The mold form is comprised of hyaline septate hyphae, which produce two different asexual reproduction structures, macroconidia and microconidia.
The micronidia are believed to be responsible for disease propagation since their 2-6 µm size is well suited for disposition into the distal alveoli.
Infection is typically acquired through inhalation of fungal propagules upon disturbances of contaminated soil or excreta.
Environmental and genetic factors influence disease manifestations which can range from asymptomatic or mild influenza-like disease to a disseminated sepsis form.
Manifestations depend on the magnitude of exposure, the host's immunological status and the virulence of the infective strain.
Reactivation of latent infection can result in significant disease, particularly for immunosuppressed individuals.
Despite the availability of potent antifungal drugs, nearly one in ten patients hospitalized with histoplasmosis dies.
The BPO (benzylpenicilloyl)-group is a major determinant of allergies against Benzylpenicillin and related antibiotics.
B-lymphocyte antigen CD20 or CD20 is an activated-glycosylated phosphoprotein on the surface of all B-cells starting at the pro-B phase (CD45R+, CD117+) and increases in concentration until maturity.
In humans CD20 is encoded by the MS4A1 gene.
This gene encodes a member of the membrane-spanning 4A gene family.
Members of this nascent protein family are characterized by common structural features and similar intron/exon splice boundaries and display unique expression patterns among hematopoietic cells and nonlymphoid tissues.
This gene encodes a B-lymphocyte surface molecule that plays a role in the development and differentiation of B-cells into plasma cells.
CD20 is the target of the monoclonal antibodies (mAb) rituximab, Ibritumomab tiuxetan, and tositumomab, that are active agents in the treatment of all B cell lymphomas and leukemias.
The anti-CD20 mAB Ofatumumab (Genmab) was approved by FDA in Oct 2009 for Chronic lymphocytic leukemia.
Nucleated cells are defined as any cell with a nucleus; the types of nucleated cells present depend on the specimen source.
White blood cells are a common type of nucleated cell and can be further broken down into types of white blood cells (e.g., neutrophils, lympohcytes, eosinophils); mature red blood cells typically do not have a nucleus.
One important application of the nucleated cell count and differential is in bone marrow analysis.
Nucleated cells found in bone marrow include myeloid cells, which include blast cells, myelocytes, segmented neutrophils, eosinophils, basophils, monocytes and plasma cells, and erythroid cells (erythroblasts, or immature red blood cells).
The total number of nucleated cells (TNC) is important as well as the myeloid:erythroid ratio and both types of information can be used together to help differentiate between different disorders.
In addition, bone marrow transplants with a higher non-erythroid nucleated cell dose are associated with better outcomes for the transplant recipients.
In medicine, Homans' sign is a sign of deep vein thrombosis (DVT).
A positive sign is present when there is pain in the calf or popliteal region with examiner's abrupt dorsiflexion of the patient's foot at the ankle while the knee is flexed to 90 degrees This sign is frequently elicited in clinical practice because of the ease of use, although it is falling into disfavor because of poor reliability and because it is frequently positive in individuals without DVT.
A positive Homans' sign does not positively diagnose DVT (poor positive predictive value), and a negative Homans' sign does not rule out the DVT diagnosis (poor negative predictive value).
The use of Homans' sign is now discouraged by some as it may unlodge a thrombus leading to a thromboembolic event.
Total circulating erythrocyte volume is determined usin Chromium-51 (or other isotope) labelled Red Cells
HCoV-HKU1 is a common cause of both upper and lower respiratory tract self-limiting infections, most frequently in young children.
Without laboratory diagnosis, typically through reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) of respiratory tract samples, HCoV-HKU1 respiratory tract infections cannot be distinguished from infections cause by other respiratory viruses.
Treatment is of symptoms and in-line with general guidelines for support of viral respiratory infections.
4-Aminophenol is the organic compound with the formula H2NC6H4OH.
Typically available as a white powder, it is commonly used as a developer in black and white film, marketed under the name Rodinal.
2-Butanol, or sec-butanol, is an organic compound with formula CH3CH(OH)CH2CH3.
This secondary alcohol is a flammable, colorless liquid that is soluble in 12 parts water and completely miscible with polar organic solvent such as ethers and other alcohols.
The inter-alpha-trypsin inhibitors (ITI) are a family of plasma protease inhibitors, assembled from a light chain-bikunin, encoded by AMBP-and five homologous heavy chains (encoded by ITIH1, ITIH2, ITIH3, ITIH4, and ITIH5), contributing to extracellular matrix stability by covalent linkage to hyaluronan.
So far, ITIH molecules have been shown to play a particularly important role in inflammation and carcinogenesis.
BMC Cancer 2008, 8:25.
A species of gram-negative bacteria in the genus ACTINOBACILLUS.
It is mainly a pathogen of PIGS, but also can infect HORSES.
16-Ketoandrostenediol (also known as 16-oxoandrostenediol or 3 beta,17 beta-dihydroxyandrost-5-en-16-one) is a naturally occurring androgenic steroid hormone generated by the adrenal glands.
It has been found in the urine of newborn infants.
Secretion of this steroid is suppressed by dexamethasone.
Levels of this hormone are almost absent by 5 months of age.
((Steroids (1964), 3(1), 77-83.)).
16-Ketoandrostenediol is a natural hormone with androgenic activity and that two potent antiandrogens: hydroxyflutamide (Eulexin) and bicalutamide (Casodex).
The CYP2E1 gene (cytochrome P450, family 2, subfamily E, polypeptide 1) is located on chromosome 10q26.3.
This gene encodes a member of the cytochrome P450 superfamily of enzymes.
The cytochrome P450 proteins are monooxygenases which catalyze many reactions involved in drug metabolism and synthesis of cholesterol, steroids and other lipids.
This protein localizes to the endoplasmic reticulum and is induced by ethanol, the diabetic state, and starvation.
The enzyme metabolizes both endogenous substrates, such as ethanol, acetone, and acetal, as well as exogenous substrates including benzene, carbon tetrachloride, ethylene glycol, and nitrosamines which are premutagens found in cigarette smoke.
Due to its many substrates, this enzyme may be involved in such varied processes as gluconeogenesis, hepatic cirrhosis, diabetes, and cancer.
Taenia solium, also called the pork tapeworm, is a cyclophyllid cestode in the family Taeniidae.
It infects pigs and humans in Asia, Africa, the Philippines, Latin America, parts of Southern Europe, and pockets of North America.
In Muslim countries, and in Israel, it is found only very rarely, due to religious dietary restrictions.
Like all cyclophyllid cestodes, T. solium has four suckers on its scolex (head).
T. solium also has two rows of hooks.
T. solium has a very similar life cycle to Taenia saginata, the beef tapeworm, with a few differences.
Though humans usually serve as a definitive host, eating infected meat, fostering adult tapeworms in the intestine, and passing eggs through feces, sometimes a cysticercus (a larva sometimes called a bladder worm) develops in the human and the human acts like an intermediate host.
This happens if eggs get to the stomach, usually as a result of contaminated hands, but also of vomiting.
Single stranded DNA is a DNA molecule that consists of a single strand as opposed to typical double stranded DNA that cosists of two strands of nucleotides in helical form.
Antibody to single stranded DNA is present in numerous systemic rheumatic diseases (systemic lupus erythematosis, rheumatoid arthritis, chronic active hepatitis, primary biliary cirrhosis).
Macrocytosis is the enlargement of red blood cells with near-constant hemoglobin concentration, and is defined by a mean corpuscular volume (MCV) of greater than 100 femtolitres (the precise criterion varies between laboratories).
Most commonly (especially when the increase in size is mild, and just above normal range)
the etiology is bone marrow dysplasia primary to alcohol abuse and Chronic alcoholism.
Other causes may include: Megaloblastosis (Vitamin B12 or folate deficiency; or DNA synthesis-inhibiting drugs), hypothyroidism, reticulocytosis (commonly from hemolysis or a recent history of blood loss), liver disease, myeloproliferative disease
Norescitalopram is a major metabolite of escitalopram (brand names Lexapro, Cipralex, Seroplex, Lexamil), an antidepressant of the selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor (SSRI) class.
Escitalopram is the S-stereoisomer (enantiomer) of citalopram (brand name Celexa).
Escitalopram and norescitalopram levels are measured for therapeutic drug monitoring and dosing.
Azorubine/Carmoisine (E122) is an azo dye and a color additive in foods.
Cefquinome is a parenteral cephalosporin derivative antimicrobial drug.
It has a broad antibacterial spectrum that includes Staphylococcus aureus, streptococci, Pseudomonas aeruginosa, and members of the Enterobacteriaceae family, such as Escherichia coli, species of Salmonella, Klebsiella, Enterobacter and Citrobacter, and Serratia marcescens.
Cefquinome is also active against many strains of methicillin-resistant staphylococci and enterococci.
Casein is the predominant phosphoprotein found in fresh milk and cheese.
When coagulated with rennet, casein is sometimes called paracasein.
In milk, casein exists as a salt of calcium not coagulated by heat.
It is precipitated by acids and by rennet, a proteolytic enzyme typically obtained from the stomachs of calves.
Casein consists of a fairly high number of proline residues and it has no disulphide bridges.
As a result, it has relatively little secondary or tertiary structures, thus making it difficult to be denatured.
In addition, casein is relatively hydrophobic resulting in low solubility in water.
von Willebrand factor multimers separates VonWillebrands type 2 multimers from other types.
Used to determine the correct treatment of bleeding in patients with VonWillebrand's disease.
Theobroma cacao (Mayan: kakaw, Nahuatl: Cacahuatl), also cacao tree and cocoa tree, is a small (4-8 m or 15-26 ft tall) evergreen tree in the family Sterculiaceae (alternatively Malvaceae), native to the deep tropical region of the Americas.
Its seeds are used to make cocoa powder and chocolate.
Phytosterols (e.g., β-sitosterol, campesterol, stigmasterol, and brassicasterol) are common components of plant foods,such as vegetable oils, seeds, and nuts.
An average Western diet contains approx.
200-400 mg of phytosterols per day.
Phytosterols are structurally similar to cholesterol and differ only in the number of carbons or double bonds in the side chain.
Since serum and tissue phytosterols are derived from intestinal absorption, levels reflect dietary plant sterol intake and intestinal absorption.
Markedly increased serum phytosterol concentrations (e.g., β-sitosterol > 50 mg/l) is seen in sitosterolemia, a rare autosomal recessive lipid disorder.
These patients develop premature coronary heart disease.
A study suggests that even slightly increased campesterol (3.8 ± 1.6 mg/l) and β-sitosterol (3.1 ± 1.1 mg/l) concentrations in serum may contribute to the risk of coronary heart disease.
Tryptophoan (or L-tryptophan) is an amino acid, a protein building block that can be found in many plant and animal proteins.
L-tryptophan is called an "essential" amino acid because the body can't make it.
It must be acquired from food.
L-tryptophan is used for insomnia, sleep apnea, depression, anxiety, facial pain, a severe form of premenstrual syndrome called premenstrual dysphoric disorder (PMDD), smoking cessation, grinding teeth during sleep (bruxism), attention deficit-hyperactivity disorder (ADHD), Tourette's syndrome, and to improve athletic performance.
L-tryptophan is naturally found in animal and plant proteins.
L-tryptophan is considered an essential amino acid because our bodies can't make it.
It is important for the development and functioning of many organs in the body.
After absorbing L-tryptophan from food, our bodies convert it to 5-HTP (5-hyrdoxytryptophan), and then to serotonin.
Serotonin is a hormone that transmits signals between nerve cells.
It also causes blood vessels to narrow.
Changes in the level of serotonin in the brain can alter mood.
The SPG11 gene (spastic paraplegia 11 (autosomal recessive)) is located on chromosome 15q14.
The protein encoded by this gene is a potential transmembrane protein that is phosphorylated upon DNA damage.
Defects in this gene are a cause of spastic paraplegia type 11 (SPG11).
Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
Amyloid beta (Aβ or Abeta) is a peptide of 36-43 amino acids that is processed from the Amyloid precursor protein.
While it is most commonly known in association with Alzheimer's disease, it does not exist specifically to cause disease.
Evidence has been found that Aβ has multiple non-disease activities.
The most common isoforms are Aβ40 and Aβ42; the shorter form is typically produced by cleavage that occurs in the endoplasmic reticulum, while the longer form is produced by cleavage in the trans-Golgi network.
The Aβ40 form is the more common of the two, but Aβ42 is the more fibrillogenic and is thus associated with disease states.
Mutations in APP associated with early-onset Alzheimer's have been noted to increase the relative production of Aβ42, and thus one suggested avenue of Alzheimer's therapy involves modulating the activity of β and γ secretases to produce mainly Aβ40.
Increases in either total Aβ levels or the relative concentration of both Aβ40 and Aβ42 (where the former is more concentrated in cerebrovascular plaques and the latter in neuritic plaques) have been implicated in the pathogenesis of both familial and sporadic Alzheimer's disease.
Due to its more hydrophobic nature, the Aβ42 is the most amyloidogenic form of the peptide.
The use of low molecular weight heparin (LMWH) is increasing significantly and it is important that it be used in conjunction with appropriate laboratory monitoring.
The chief functional difference between standard (unfractionated) heparin and LMWH is that standard heparin has equivalent inhibitory activity against both factor Xa and thrombin (by binding to and potentiating antithrombin), while LMWH, on account of its shorter polysaccharide chains, preferentially inactivates factor Xa.
LMWH has more favorable pharmacokinetics and bioavailability than standard heparin with a considerably longer plasma half-life, and produces a more predictable anticoagulant response.
These properties allow LMWH to be administered only once or twice per day.
Methamphetamine (MA) is a drug of abuse also referred to as meth, crystal and speed.
It is a central nervous system stimulant that can be injected, smoked, snorted or ingested.
Short-term MA abuse causes an increase of energy, sense of well-being and decreased appetite that lasts 6-8 hours.
MA use can lead to stroke, cardiac arrhythmia, stomach cramps, shaking, anxiety, insomnia, paranoia, hallucinations, and structural changes to the brain.
Pregnant women who use MA can cause growth retardation, premature birth, and developmental disorders in neonates and long lasting intellectual deficits to the children as they grow.
Users addicted to MA experience withdrawal symptoms that include dysphoria, fatigue, insomnia and an increased appetite.
In chronic MA users positron emission tomography has proven a decrease in dopamine D2 receptors which is associated with mental deterioration that can be reversed to some extent after abstaining from MA.
The presence of red blood cells within the cast is always pathologic, and strongly indicates glomerular damage, which can occur in glomerulonephritis from various causes or vasculitis, including Wegener's granulomatosis, systemic lupus erythematosis, post-streptococcal glomerulonephritis or Goodpasture's syndrome.
They can also be associated with renal infarction and subacute bacterial endocarditis.
They appear yellowish-brown, are generally cylindrical with sometimes ragged edges.
Because they are fragile, tests must be done on fresh samples.
Erythrocyte casts are usually associated with nephritic syndromes.
Monocytic ehrlichiosis is a tick-borne disease caused by rickettsial-like agents and is often referred to as "spotless" or rashless Rocky Mountain spotted fever.
It has been reported in various regions of the United States.
Establishments that process blood products regulated by the FDA need to register with the FDA.
The information in the blood establishment registration electronic file includes the address, contact information, and types of blood processed at the establishment.
The FDA will use that information for various purposes including for inspectors when they visit the site.
The establishment will notify the FDA when their registration is temporarily being inactivated.
Monosomy X risk refers to the fetus's risk of having monosomy X, also known as Turner syndrome.
The risk can be estimated based on gestational age as well as prenatal genetic testing of fetal DNA.Monosomy X is caused by the presence of a single normal copy of chromosome X in each cell rather than 2 normal copies of X or one X and one Y chromosome.
In many cases, critical portions of the second X chromosome may be missing rather than the entire chromosome.
Turner syndrome is associated with ovarian dysfunction, short stature and other characteristic physical features, and up to half of girls with Turner syndrome have congenital heart disease.
Turner syndrome is not associated with cognitive delay.
The general population risk of monosomy X is about 1 in 2,500 live female births, and does not change with maternal age.
Cydonia oblonga, commonly known as quince, is a small, deciduous tree in the Rosaceae family.
The seed, fruit, and leaves from the tree may be used as medicine.
IgE-mediated reactions after eating the fruit and that required epinephrine and corticosteroid treatment has been reported.
A silicate is a compound containing a silicon bearing anion.
The great majority of silicates are oxides, but hexafluorosilicate (2−) and other anions are also included.
This article focuses mainly on the Si-O anions.
Silicates comprise the majority of the earth's crust, as well as most planets and moons.
Sand, Portland cement, and thousands of minerals are examples of silicates.
Act d 8 of kiwi fruit is in the PR-10 family of allergens, and bears homology to the major Birch allergen, Bet v 1.
Allergy manifestations to Kiwi range from localized oral allergy syndrome (OAS) to life-threatening anaphylaxis.
Granular leukocytes with a nucleus that usually has two lobes connected by a slender thread of chromatin.
The cytoplasm contains coarse, round and uniform granules stainable by eosin.
Cytosol aminopeptidase is an enzyme present in large concentrations in biliary system, pancreas and gi mucosa.
It is more sensitive for biliary obstruction than other liver enzymes (and not present in bone).
It is also rised very high in eclampsia and rises but not severely in last trimester of pregnancy.
Respiratory effort- related arousal (RERA) is an obstructive upper airway airflow reduction that resolves with arousal.
RERAs cannot be classified as either apnea or hypopnea, and are accompanied by increased respiratory effort.
Typically measured via esophageal or nasal manometry, though induction plethysmography is suitable.
Cytochrome P450 1A2 (CYP1A2)-mediated drug metabolism is highly variable and often based on a patient's genotype.
Genetic testing is performed to identifying patients who are poor, intermediate, extensive, or ultrarapid metabolizers of drugs metabolized by CYP1A2.
A polymorphism is associated with greatly decreased activity of the CYP1A2 enzyme.
Newborn screening is the process of testing newborn babies for treatable genetic, endocrinologic, metabolic and hematologic diseases.
Robert Guthrie is given much of the credit for pioneering the earliest screening for phenylketonuria in the late 1960s using blood samples on filter paper obtained by pricking a newborn baby's heel on the second day of life to get a few drops of blood.
Congenital hypothyroidism was the second disease widely added in the 1970s.
The development of tandem mass spectrometry screening by Edwin Naylor and others in the early 1990s led to a large expansion of potentially detectable congenital metabolic diseases that affect blood levels of organic acids.
Additional tests have been added to many screening programs over the last two decades.
Newborn screening has been adopted by most countries around the world, though the lists of screened diseases vary widely.
Plasmin, an enzyme that degrades many blood plasma proteins (most notably fibrin clots) is released as a zymogen called plasminogen (PLG) from the liver into the systemic circulation.
Two major glycoforms of plasminogen are present in humans - type I plasminogen contains two glycosylation moieties (N-linked to N289 and O-linked to T346), whereas type II plasmingen contains only a single O-linked sugar (O-linked to T346).
Type II plasminogen is preferentially recruited to the cell surface over the type I glycoform.
Conversely, type I plasminogen appears more readily recruited to blood clots.
Plasminogen deficiency in mice leads to defective liver repair, defective wound healing, reproductive abnormalities.
In human, a rare disorder called plasminogen deficiency type I (Online 'Mendelian Inheritance in Man' is caused by mutations of the PLG gene and is often manifested by ligneous conjunctivitis.
Octreotide (brand name Sandostatin, Novartis Pharmaceuticals) is an octapeptide that mimics natural somatostatin pharmacologically, though it is a more potent inhibitor of growth hormone, glucagon, and insulin than the natural hormone.
It was first synthesized in 1979 by the chemist Wilfried Bauer.
A species of NAIROVIRUS, transmitted by the ixodid ticks and producing a lethal gastroenteritis in sheep and goats.
Though a major veterinary pathogen, its effect on humans has not been firmly established.
Demeclocycline (marketed as Declomycin®, Declostatin® and Ledermycin®) is a member of the tetracycline antibiotics group used in various types of bacterial infections.
One of its other registered uses is the treatment of hyponatremia (low blood sodium concentration) due to the syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone (SIADH) where fluid restriction alone has been ineffective.
It is derived from the Streptomyces aureofaciens fungal strain.
Mode of action:Its use as an antibiotic is particularly in Lyme disease, acne and bronchitis.
Resistance is gradually becoming more common.
As with related tetracycline antibiotics, demeclocycline acts by binding to the 30S- and 50S-RNA, which impairs protein synthesis by bacteria.
It is therefore bacteriostatic (it impairs bacterial growth but does not kill bacteria directly).
Demeclocycline is rarely used for infections.
Scrapie is a fatal, degenerative disease affecting the central nervous system of sheep and goats.
It is in the same class of diseases as BSE in cattle and Chronic Wasting Disease in elk and deer.
Transmission of the classical scrapie agent is not completely understood but apparently healthy sheep infected with the agent can transmit disease.
The infecting agent or prion is a mal-formed version (PrPsc) of a normal protein (PrP) found in all animals.
The malformation of the normal prion proteins occurs when they are exposed to the mal-formed version of the protein.
The normal prion proteins may be more or less susceptible to malformation when they are exposed to the mal-formed protein based on their genetic makeup.
Resistance or susceptibility has been linked to the presence of certain amino acids at various locations within the normal protein.
Genotyping determines the amino acids present at specific locations or codons in the prion protein.
These are reported as a pair of one character amino acid codes such as RR, RH, QQ, etc.
This testing does not diagnosis Scrapie, but is an important tool for selecting genetically resistant animals for breeding and eradication.
Codons associated with susceptibility/resistance to scrapie include codon 112, 136, 141, 154 and 171.
Codon 154 codes for either arginine ® or histidine (H).
The presence of H at codon 154 has been associated with increased resistance to scrapie.
Distinguishing between large B-cell lymphomas is critical because the different forms often require distinct management.
Diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL) is the most common form, making up 30-40% of all non-Hodgkin's lymphomas.
DLBCL is defined pathologically by large neoplastic cells with B-cell derivation and clinically by aggressive presentation, but differs from its former putative subtype, primary mediastinal large B-cell lymphoma (PMBCL), which is believed to arise from thymic medullary B cells.
Since 2001, the WHO has recognized PMBCL as a distinct clinicopathologic disease from DLBCL, with likely distinct treatment options.
PMBCL accounts for approximately 2% of patients with NHL, and tends to affect younger patients..
PMBCL is generally not further subclassified during a patient workup, whereas DLBCL can be further subdivided by cell of origin (COO) into germinal center type and non-germinal center (activated B-cell) type, the latter having significantly worse response to certain treatments .
A species of gram-negative, rod-shaped bacteria isolated from the intestinal tract of swine, poultry, and man.
It may be pathogenic.
Surfactant is a naturally occurring substance made of six lipids and four proteins that is produced in the lungs.
Surfactant reduces the surface tension of fluid in the lungs and helps make the small air sacs in the lungs (alveoli) more stable and keeps them from collapsing.
In preparation for breathing air, fetuses begin making surfactant between 24 and 28 weeks gestation.
Babies born very prematurely often lack adequate surfactant, and need to be given surfactant replacement therapy immediately after birth in order to breathe.
A plant species of the genus CYNARA, family ASTERACEAE.
The flower bud is the familiar artichoke eaten as a vegetable.
An important soluble regulator of the alternative pathway of complement activation (COMPLEMENT ACTIVATION PATHWAY, ALTERNATIVE).
It is a 139-kDa glycoprotein expressed by the liver and secreted into the blood.
It binds to COMPLEMENT C3B and makes iC3b (inactivated complement 3b) susceptible to cleavage by COMPLEMENT FACTOR I. Complement factor H also inhibits the association of C3b with COMPLEMENT FACTOR B to form the C3bB proenzyme, and promotes the dissociation of Bb from the C3bBb complex (COMPLEMENT C3 CONVERTASE, ALTERNATIVE PATHWAY).
Staphylococcus aureus group II strains are associated with skin infections, and the sau3AI gene is conserved across S aureus group II strains.
The gene produces a restriction endonuclease, and the presence of this gene in clinical specimens can be used to identify S aureus group II as one of the pathogens responsible for a specific infection.
A lactose-fermenting bacterium causing dysentery.
Blood group antigens are either sugars or proteins found on the red blood cell membrane and determine the blood group of an individual.
The two primary blood groups are the ABO blood group (types A, B, AB, and O) and Rh blood group (types Rh D-positive or Rh D-negative).
An individual's blood group is crucial to identify during blood transfusions or transplants, since not all blood group antigens are compatible.
Type AB is considered the "universal receiver" because a patient with this blood group may receive type A, B, AB, or O blood in a transfusion or transplant.
Type O is considered the "universal donor" because a patient with this blood group may donate their blood to type A, B, AB, or O during a transfusion or transplant.
Patients that are Rh positive may receive Rh positive or Rh negative blood, but Rh negative patients may only receive Rh negative blood.
Yersinia pestis is a Gram-negative bacterium belonging to the family Enterobacteriaceae.
The infectious agent of bubonic plague, it can also cause pneumonic and septicemic plague.
All three forms have been responsible for high mortality rates in epidemics throughout human history, for example, the Great Plague and the Black Death, the latter of which accounted for the death of approximately one third of the European population in 1347 to 1353.
The role of Y. pestis in the Black Death is debated among historians; some have suggested that the Black Death spread far too rapidly to be caused by Y. pestis.
DNA from Y. pestis has been found in the teeth of those who died from the Black Death, however, and medieval corpses who died from other causes did not test positive for Y. pestis.,
This suggests that Y. pestis was, at the very least, a contributing factor in some (though possibly not all of) the European plagues.
A naphthacene antibiotic that inhibits amino acyl tRNA binding during protein synthesis.
The IDS gene is located on chromosome Xq28 and encodes iduronate 2-sulfatase, a lysososomal enzyme involved in glycosaminoglycan metabolism.
IDS gene mutations are associated with mucopolysaccharidosis II (MPSII), also known as Hunter syndrome.
Hunter syndrome is an X-linked disorder with severe and attenuated forms.
The severe form is characterized by severe airway obstruction, skeletal deformities, cardiomyopathy, neurologic decline, and death by age 20, while the attenuated form is more variable and can be associated with a normal life expectancy.
An intermediate in testosterone biosynthesis, found in the testis or the adrenal glands.
Androstenediol, derived from DEHYDROEPIANDROSTERONE by the reduction of the 17-keto group (17-HYDROXYSTEROID DEHYDROGENASES), is converted to TESTOSTERONE by the oxidation of the 3-beta hydroxyl group to a 3-keto group (3-HYDROXYSTEROID DEHYDROGENASES).
The BRCA2 gene (breast cancer 2, early onset) is located on chromosome 13q12.3.
Inherited mutations in BRCA1 and this gene, BRCA2, confer increased lifetime risk of developing breast or ovarian cancer.
Both BRCA1 and BRCA2 are involved in maintenance of genome stability, specifically the homologous recombination pathway for double-strand DNA repair.
The BRCA2 protein contains several copies of a 70 aa motif called the BRC motif, and these motifs mediate binding to the RAD51 recombinase which functions in DNA repair.
BRCA2 is considered a tumor suppressor gene, as tumors with BRCA2 mutations generally exhibit loss of heterozygosity (LOH) of the wild-type allele.
Gonadotropin-releasing hormone 1 (GNRH1) is a peptide hormone responsible for the release of FSH and LH from the anterior pituitary.
GNRH1 is synthesized and released by the hypothalamus.
Nervonic acid is a monounsaturated omega-9 fatty acid.
Nervonic acid has been identified as important in the biosynthesis of nerve cell myelin.
It is found in the sphingolipids of white matter in human brain.
Nervonic acid is used in the treatment of disorders involving demyelination, such as adrenoleukodystrophy and multiple sclerosis where there is a decreased level of nervonic acid in sphingolipids.
HPV type 26 has been associated with low grade cervical abnormalities, cancer precursors, and anogenital cancers.
Hev b 8 is a profilin.
Plant profilins are important panallergens.
They are responsible for a significant percentage of pollen-related allergies.
The observed frequencies of Hev b 8-specific IgE antibodies in sera of Latex-allergic patients in different risk groups range between 6 and 24%.
Cytochrome P450 1A2 (CYP1A2)-mediated drug metabolism is highly variable and often based on a patient's genotype.
Genetic testing is performed to identifying patients who are poor, intermediate, extensive, or ultrarapid metabolizers of drugs metabolized by CYP1A2.
The CYP1A2 c.-163C>A polymorphism is associated with increased activity of the CYP1A2 enzyme.
A benzothiazepine derivative with vasodilating action due to its antagonism of the actions of the calcium ion in membrane functions.
It is also teratogenic.
The UNC13D gene (unc-13 homolog D (C. elegans)) is located on chromosome 17q25.1.
This gene encodes a protein that is a member of the UNC13 family, containing similar domain structure as other family members but lacking an N-terminal phorbol ester-binding C1 domain present in other Munc13 proteins.
The protein appears to play a role in vesicle maturation during exocytosis and is involved in regulation of cytolytic granules secretion.
Mutations in this gene are associated with familial hemophagocytic lymphohistiocytosis type 3, a genetically heterogeneous, rare autosomal recessive disorder.
A subkingdom consisting of unicellular organisms that are the simplest in the animal kingdom.
Most are free living.
They range in size from submicroscopic to macroscopic.
Protozoa are divided into seven phyla: SARCOMASTIGOPHORA; Labyrinthomorpha, APICOMPLEXA; MICROSPORA; Ascetospora, Myxozoa, and CILIOPHORA.
The Blue Mussel (Mytilus edulis) is an edible bivalve.
It is commonly farmed and harvested for food throughout the world.
Blue mussels are part of an ongoing long term environmental monitoring program in Prince William Sound, Alaska, the area affected by the Exxon Valdez oil spill.
The study examines hydrocarbon signatures in order to aid a better understanding of ecosystem recovery following the spill.
Blue mussels live in intertidal areas attached to rocks and other substrates by strong thread-like structures called byssal threads which are secreted by byssal glands located in the foot.
Shell smooth with a sculpturing of concentric lines but no radiating ribs.
They are purple, blue or sometimes brown in color.
Blue Mussels are preyed upon by starfish such as Asterias vulgaris ; small mussels are also eaten by the Dogwhelk (Nucella lapillus).
Oxymorphone-3-glucuronide (O3G) is a major metabolite of oxymorphone detected in urine and plasma.
Oxymorphone (trade names Opana, Numorphan, and Numorphone) is an opiate analgesic indicated for the relief of moderate to severe pain.
Drug levels are measured to monitor compliance or identify illicit opioid drug use.
3-Hydroxypalmitoleylcarnitine is a primary marker for Long-chain L-3-Hydroxy dehydrogenase deficiency, and Trifunctional protein deficiency.
Mycobacterium avium Complex (MAC) is the most common non-tuberculous bacteria infecting humans and includes Mycobacterium avium and Mycobacterium intracellulare.
It is pervasive in the environment including in fresh and saltwater, soil, dust, and in numerous animals including chickens, pigs, dogs, cats and insects.
MAC is transmitted through the air and inhaled into the lungs leading to two models of disease.
The first model is that of a healthy non-smoking patient that mostly affects women over 50 who present with interstitial patterns on chest radiography.
In the second model of MAC the patient has underlying lung disease such as chronic obstructive lung disease, old tuberculosis, bronchiectasis or cystic fibrosis.
These patients are mostly middle-aged or older white men with worsening cough, hemoptysis, night sweats, anorexia and weight loss.
On the radiograph are cavitations with progressive fibronodular opacities (<5mm nodules) which mainly occurs in the upper lung.
Free cortisol levels evaluate adrenal cortical function, especially hyperfunction.
Urinary cortisol reflects the portion of serum-free cortisol filtered by the kidney.
Urinary free cortisol is a better reflection of cortisol secretion than a single serum specimen.
Increased urinary free cortisol in an unstressed patient is diagnostic for Cushing syndrome.
Increases occur also in pregnancy and with oral contraceptives.
One of the ADRENERGIC BETA-ANTAGONISTS used as an antihypertensive, anti-anginal, and anti-arrhythmic agent.
Distance from Labrale Inferius to soft tissue Pogonion
A naturally occurring product of plants obtained following reduction of GALACTOSE.
It appears as a white crystalline powder with a slight sweet taste.
It may form in excess in the lens of the eye in GALACTOSEMIAS, a deficiency of GALACTOKINASE.
Pregnancy ultrasound terms in LOINC reflect the structure of radiology order and billing codes for pregnancy.
Therefore, "Multisection for pregnancy" is defined as imaging of the pelvis and a single fetus and "Multisection for pregnancy multiple gestation" is defined as imaging of the pelvis and an additional fetus.
For example, for triplet pregnancies, imaging of the first fetus would be ordered and reported under the "Multisection for pregnancy" code, and imaging of the second and third fetus would be ordered and reported using two instances of the "Multisection for pregnancy multiple gestation" code.
In addition, the codes can be further specified according to "first trimester" or "second or third trimester".
Netilmicin is a member of the aminoglycoside family of antibiotics.
These antibiotics have the ability to kill a wide variety of bacteria.
Netilmicin is not absorbed from the gut and is therefore only given by injection or infusion.
It is only used in the treatment of serious infections particularly those resistant to gentamicin.
Histidine is a primary marker for Histidinemia.
Variant lymphocytes (also called reactive or atypical) are a type of abnormal lymphocyte found in the peripheral blood.
They can be a marker for certain viral illnesses, including infectious mononucleosis, viral hepatitis, CMV, HIV, and rubella, and can also occur as part of a drug reaction to drugs such as phenytoin and para-aminosalicylic acid.
The smokybrown cockroach (Periplaneta fuliginosa) is a large species of cockroach, winged, and growing to a length of 1¼-1⅜ in.
It is brown in color.
It is closely related to the American cockroach however is easily distinguishable from it.
It has a uniformly dark brown mahogany color.
Its thorax is dark and shiny, unlike the light rimmed pattern of the American cockroach.
It is very common in Japan as well as the southern United States, and in tropical climates.
It can be found in Florida, Louisiana, Mississippi, Texas, and other moist gulf coastal states, and along the southern Mississippi River.
Anakinra, (brandname Kineret), drug class interleukin antagonists, is used alone or in combination with other medications, to reduce the pain and swelling associated with rheumatoid arthritis.
It works by blocking the activity of interleukin-1 receptor.
Granzyme B is a protein that in humans is encoded by the GZMB gene.
Cytotoxic T lymphocytes (CTL) and natural killer (NK) cells share the remarkable ability to recognize specific infected target cells.
They are thought to protect their host by inducing apoptosis, bearing on their surface 'nonself' antigens, usually peptides or proteins resulting from infection by intracellular pathogens.
The protein encoded by this gene is crucial for the rapid induction of target cell apoptosis by CTL in cell-mediated immune response
MDMA (3,4-methylenedioxy-N-methylamphetamine) is an entactogenic drug of the phenethylamine and amphetamine classes of drugs.
In popular culture, MDMA has become widely known as "ecstasy" (shortened to "E", "X", or "XTC").
A parasite of carnivorous mammals that causes TRICHINOSIS.
It is especially common in rats and in swine fed uncooked garbage.
Human infection is initiated by the consumption of raw or insufficiently cooked pork or other meat containing the encysted larvae.
A phenothiazine with actions similar to CHLORPROMAZINE but with less antipsychotic activity.
It is primarily used in short-term treatment of disturbed behavior and as an antiemetic.
Libocedrus/Calocedrus is a genus of 2 to 3 species of coniferous trees in the family Cupressaceae (Cypress).
The genus is related to the genus Thuja and has similar overlapping scale-leaves.
Anecdotal evidence suggests that Incense-cedar tree pollen can induce asthma, allergic rhinitis and allergic conjunctivitis; however, few studies have been reported to date.
Propionylglycine is an acyl glycine.
Acyl glycines are normally minor metabolites of fatty acids.
However, the excretion of certain acyl glycines is increased in several inborn errors of metabolism.
In certain cases the measurement of these metabolites in body fluids can be used to diagnose disorders associated with mitochondrial fatty acid beta-oxidation.
Acyl glycines are produced through the action of glycine N-acyltransferase which is an enzyme that catalyzes the chemical reaction: acyl-CoA + glycine < -- > CoA + N-acylglycine The level of propionylglycine is elevated in patients with propionic acidemia, which is an inherited deficiency of propionyl-CoA carboxylase.
(Disorders of propionate and methylmalonate metabolism.
In The Metabolic and Molecular Bases of Inherited Disease).
Aspergillus clavatus is a species of Aspergillus with conidia dimensions 3-4.5 x 2.5-4.5 micrometres.
It is found in soil and animal manure.
Can produce the toxin patulin which may be associated with disease in humans and animals.
This species is only occasionally pathogenic.
Coxiella burnetii exists in two antigenic phases called phase I and phase II.
This antigenic difference is important in diagnosis.
In acute cases of Q fever, the antibody level to phase II is usually higher than that to phase I, often by several orders of magnitude, and generally is first detected during the second week of illness.
In chronic Q fever, the reverse situation is true.
Antibodies to phase I antigens of C. burnetii generally require longer to appear and indicate continued exposure to the bacteria.
Thus, high levels of antibody to phase I in later specimens in combination with constant or falling levels of phase II antibodies and other signs of inflammatory disease suggest chronic Q fever.
Antibodies to phase I and II antigens have been known to persist for months or years after initial infection.
Influenza viruses, from the family Orthomyxoviridae, are enveloped negative-strand RNA viruses with segmented genomes containing seven to eight gene segments.
Of the five genera in the family, only influenza A virus (IAV), influenza B and C are medically relevant to humans.
Aquatic birds harboring avian IAV are the likely natural reservoir for all known IAV subtypes and are probably the original source of all human pandemic IAV strains.
IAV maintained in wild birds have been associated with stable host switch events to novel hosts, including most often to domestic poultry but also to horses, swine, toothed whales and humans.
The influenza virus life cycle begins with the binding of viral HA to host cell receptors.
Endocytosis and HA-mediated fusion of the viral and cellular membranes occurs.
Viral ribonucleoprotein complexes are released into the cytoplasm, travel to the nucleus, then are replicated and transcribed by the viral polymerase complex.
The new viruses are formed and bud when the newly formed ribonucleicprotein complexes and structural proteins reach the plasma membrane.
Further research is needed to better understand how IAVs switch hosts and the viral genetic changes that underlie human adaptation.
IAV causes respiratory infections in humans ranging from asymptomatic to fatal.
Pandemics are attributed to "novel" viruses which possess a viral hemagglutinin (HA) to which humans do not have immunity.
Influenza viruses A and B are single-stranded RNA enveloped viruses belonging to the Orthomyxoviridae family.
The symptoms of infection of Influenza A and B include fever, cough, sore throat, rhinorrhea, nasal congestion, headache, myalgia and malaise.
Some patients may experience gastrointestinal symptoms including watery diarrhea, vomiting and abdominal pain.
The influenza viruses spread rapidly in enclosed spaces with a documented rate of infection of 70% following a common source of exposure.
Infection occurs in the respiratory epithelium in both the upper and lower respiratory tract, and the virus can be found in many specimen types, including nasal aspirates, nasal or nasopharyngeal swabs, throat swabs, sputum and tracheal aspirates.
When infection rates reach epidemic proportions, hospitalization of children and elderly patients rises as does the mortality rates of elderly patients.(Manual of Clinical Microbiology, 11th edition, James H. Jorgensen; Karen C. Carroll; Guido Funke; Michael A Pfaller; Marie Louise Landry; Sandra S. Richter; David W. Warnock)
The output neurons of the cerebellar cortex.
An endophyte is a type of fungus that has a synergistic relationship with certain species of grasses.
It obtains its nutrition from the grass, producing toxins which are harmful to surface-feeding insects.
It is a "natural insecticide".
Carbromal is a hypnotic/sedative.
This is a bacterium of the type thermophilic actinomycetes.
It grows in moldy hay, grain, bagasse (sugar cane waste) and vegetable compost, and is usually found in closed barns, silos, and grain mills.
Moreover, it can be found in home and office environments, particularly in forced-air heating, humidification systems, and air conditioners.
The "Multiple Sclerosis Action Plan" is a communication tool medical providers use to inform school staff of a patient's Multiple Sclerosis diagnosis and treatment protocol.
School staff uses this information to guide and authorize their treatment of the child's Multiple Sclerosis while at school.
The following information is included in the action plan: 1.
Patient information: demographics, school, grade, parent/guardian, emergency contacts, primary care provider/clinic, 2. Multiple Sclerosis description: signs/symptoms, 3.
Treatment protocol during school hours: medication orders (type medication, dosage amount and time), 4.
Additional notes/instructions: free text, and 5.
Acknowledgement: Authorization for administration of medication away from clinic, provider signature and date, parent/guardian authorization: signatures and dates consenting school to give medications.
The distance of the incisal edge of the maxillary central incisor relative to the A line (Line through A point and perpendicular to the Frankfort horizontal plane)
Danofloxacin is a fluoroquinolone antibacterial and antimycoplasmal drug.
It is administered in the drinking water of chickens, and by IM injection to cattle for the treatment of respiratlry disease.
The rate at which a pacemaker delivers stimuli to the heart
Yellow-brown, radially-striated spheres with "thorny apple" projections, rare in fresh urine, usually of no clinical significance but may be associated with urate stones.
A sulphonylurea hypoglycemic agent with actions and uses similar to those of CHLORPROPAMIDE.
Acetonitrile is the chemical compound with formula CH3CN.
This colorless liquid is the simplest organic nitrile.
It is produced mainly as a byproduct of acrylonitrile manufacture.
It is mainly used as a polar aprotic solvent in purification of butadiene.
Parasitic worms or helminths are a division of eukaryotic parasites that, unlike external parasites such as lice and fleas, live inside their host.
They are worm-like organisms that live and feed off living hosts, receiving nourishment and protection while disrupting their hosts' nutrient absorption, causing weakness and disease.
Those that live inside the digestive tract are called intestinal parasites.
They can live inside humans as well as other animals.
Approximately 3 billion people globally are infected with helminths.
It is a diuretic with fast onset and short duration that is used for EDEMA and chronic RENAL INSUFFICIENCY.
Ceftazidime is a third generation beta-lactam antibiotic that belongs to the cephalosporin Family of antibiotics.
Its mode of action is to bind to penicillin binding proteins (PBPs) that are located on the outer membrane of the bacterium.
When ceftazidime binds to the PBPs, it interferes with the activity of transpeptidase enzymes which prevents the formation of peptidoglycan chains.
Without the peptidoglycan chains, the bacterial septum and cell wall cannot be produced during cell division, which in turn affects the rigidity of the cell wall and leads to cell lysis.
Ceftazidime is more effective against both Gram-negative bacteria and less effective against Gram-positive bacteria than first and second generation cephalosporins.
Ceftazidime is a broad-spectrum antibiotic used frequently to treat Pseudomonas and other Gram-negative infections.
A genus of flagellate protozoans found in the blood and lymph of vertebrates and invertebrates, both hosts being required to complete the life cycle.
Acamprosate, also known as N-acetyl homotaurine and by the brand name Campral, is a drug used for treating alcohol dependence.
Acamprosate is thought to stabilize the chemical balance in the brain that would otherwise be disrupted by alcoholism, possibly by antagonizing glutamatergic N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors and agonizing gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) type A receptors.
Certain serious side effects include diarrhea, allergic reactions, irregular heartbeats, and low or high blood pressure, while less serious side effects include headaches, insomnia, and impotence.
Promotes the conversion of tropocollagen to collagen and is involved in the production of adrenal cortical steroids and the metabolism of tyrosine and folate.
In addition, it appears to function in a variety of other metabolic processes in which its role has not been characterized.
The need for Vitamin C can be increased by the use of asprin, oral contraceptives, tetracyclines and other medications.
Chronic injestion of large doses has been a common-place practice for several years with no apparently harmful effect.
Parvimonas micra, previously classified as Peptostreptococcus micros, is a Gram positive anaerobic bacteria.
P micra is part of the normal gastrointestinal and gingival crevice flora, and has been identified as a pathogen in various types of infections including periodontal disease and infected root canals, chronic wound infections, acute burn and surgical wound infections, and joint infections.
HIV Integrase is the viral enzyme system responsible for incorporating viral DNA into host DNA resulting in chronic infection.
Biotin, (also known as vitamin B7, vitamin H, or coenzyme R), is a water soluble B-complex vitamin that plays an important role in helping the body metabolize proteins and process glucose.
Biotin is necessary for cell growth, the production of fatty acids, and the metabolism of fats and amino acids.
Biotin assists in various metabolic reactions involving the transfer of carbon dioxide.
It may also be helpful in maintaining a steady blood sugar level.
Biotin deficiency is rare, as intestinal bacteria generally produce biotin in excess of the body's daily requirements.
A wide range of foods contain biotin.
The following foods have slightly higher amounts: egg yolks (raw), liver, peanuts, and raspberries.
In chemistry, a carbonate is a salt or ester of carbonic acid, characterized by the presence of the carbonate ion, CO2−3 or a carbonate functional group O=C(O-)2.
It works as a buffer in the blood as follows: when pH is too low, the concentration of hydrogen ions is too high, so one exhales CO2.
This will cause the equation to shift left, essentially decreasing the concentration of H+ ions, causing a more basic pH. When pH is too high, the concentration of hydrogen ions in the blood is too low, so the kidneys excrete bicarbonate (HCO3−).
This causes the equation to shift right, essentially increasing the concentration of hydrogen ions, causing a more acidic pH.
Japanese cedar, also called Sugi tree, is an evergreen growing 30 to 50 metres tall.
Its needles shift from a pale opal in the summer to a bright red toward the autumn.
Japanese cedar is native to Japan and the coastal provinces of China, and is often cultivated in Europe and North America.
Japanese cedar pollen is the most common allergen causing seasonal pollen allergy in Japan.
It is the most common cause of seasonal allergic rhinitis and contributes significantly to sinusitis and rhinoconjunctivitis during spring.
It is a risk factor for bronchial asthma in Japanese adult asthmatics.
Pollen from this tree also affects the severity of atopic dermatitis and is an important factor in oral allergy syndrome.
Lysophosphatidylcholine(26:0), or LysoPC(26:0), is a lysophospholipid (LyP) and diagnostic marker for X-linked adrenoleukodystrophy (X-ALD), peroxisomal biogenesis disorders (PBD) and single enzyme defects (SED) of peroxisomal fatty acid oxidation.
For newborn screening, 26:0 lyso-PC is measured in dried blood spots (DBS) for the diagnosis, monitoring and treatment of X-ALD other peroxisomal disorders.
The AIRE gene (autoimmune regulator) is located on chromosome 21q22.3.
This gene encodes a transcriptional regulator that forms nuclear bodies and interacts with the transcriptional coactivator CREB binding protein.
The encoded protein plays an important role in immunity by regulating the expression of autoantigens and negative selection of autoreactive T-cells in the thymus.
Mutations in this gene cause the rare autosomal-recessive systemic autoimmune disease termed autoimmune polyendocrinopathy with candidiasis and ectodermal dystrophy (APECED).
Borrelia hermsii is a species of Borrelia.
It can be associated with relapsing fever.
Artemisia tridentata (also called sagebrush/common sagebrush, big sagebrush, blue/black sagebrush or mountain sagebrush) is a shrub or small tree from the family Asteraceae.
The vernacular name "sagebrush" is also used for several related members of the genus Artemisia, such as California Sagebrush (Artemisia californica).
The CDH1 gene (cadherin 1, type 1, E-cadherin (epithelial)) is located on chromosome 16q22.1.
This gene is a classical cadherin from the cadherin superfamily.
The encoded protein is a calcium dependent cell-cell adhesion glycoprotein comprised of five extracellular cadherin repeats, a transmembrane region and a highly conserved cytoplasmic tail.
Mutations in this gene are correlated with gastric, breast, colorectal, thyroid and ovarian cancer.
Loss of function is thought to contribute to progression in cancer by increasing proliferation, invasion, and/or metastasis.
The ectodomain of this protein mediates bacterial adhesion to mammalian cells and the cytoplasmic domain is required for internalization.
Identified transcript variants arise from mutation at consensus splice sites.
The stent expansion pressure is the amount of pressure applied to a coronary stent in order to expand it to the appropriate diameter, and the expansion time is how long it takes to expand.
Expansion pressures can range from 10 to 20 atm, and expansion time ranges from 30-60 sec.
A halogen with the atomic symbol Br, atomic number 36, and atomic weight 79.904.
It is a volatile reddish-brown liquid that gives off suffocating vapors, is corrosive to the skin, and may cause severe gastroenteritis if ingested.
Mace is made from the shell of Nutmeg.
Mace may uncommonly induce symptoms of food allergy or cutaneous hypersensitivity reactions in sensitised individuals.
An anticonvulsant that is used to treat a wide variety of seizure disorders.
It is also an anti-arrhythmic and a muscle relaxant.
The mechanism of therapeutic action is not clear, although several cellular actions have been described including effects on ion channels, active transport, and general membrane stabilization.
The mechanism of its muscle relaxant effect appears to involve a reduction in the sensitivity of muscle spindles to stretch.
Phenytoin has been proposed for several other therapeutic uses, but its use has been limited by its side effects and interactions with other drugs.
The inferior-posterior angle formed by the Sella-Nasion line and the Nasion-Pogonion line
The TP53 gene (tumor protein p53) is located on chromosome 17p13.1.
This gene encodes a tumor suppressor protein containing transcriptional activation, DNA binding, and oligomerization domains.
The encoded protein responds to diverse cellular stresses to regulate expression of target genes, thereby inducing cell cycle arrest, apoptosis, senescence, DNA repair, or changes in metabolism.
Mutations in this gene are associated with a variety of human cancers, including hereditary cancers such as Li-Fraumeni syndrome.
Alternative splicing of this gene and the use of alternate promoters result in multiple transcript variants and isoforms.
Additional isoforms have also been shown to result from the use of alternate translation initiation codons (PMIDs: 12032546, 20937277).
Nitrazepam (marketed under the trade names Alodorm®, Mogadon®, Nitredon ®, Nilandron®) is a powerful hypnotic drug, which is a benzodiazepine derivative.
It possesses powerful anxiolytic, anticonvulsant, amnestic, sedative and skeletal muscle relaxant properties.
Nitrazepam shortens the time required to fall asleep and lengthens the duration of sleep.
Typically, it may work within an hour and allow the individual to maintain sleep for 4 to 6 hours.
It is no longer available in the United States.
Orally active semisynthetic cephalosporin antibiotic with broad-spectrum activity.
1,3-dichlorobenzene is a colorless liquid and may be a carcinogen.
The molecular formula for 1,3-dichlorobenzene (or meta-dichlorobenzene) is C6H4Cl2.
Lawsonia intracellularis is an intracellular gram negative bacteria that causes proliferative enteropathy in pigs.
Lawsonia isolate typing is important for epidemiologic purposes, both within a single farm, regionally, and globally.
Variable number of tandem repeat (VNTR) analysis is used to determine the VNTR pattern for a specific isolate of L. intracellularis based on four specific sequences of DNA.
The number of repeats at each of the four loci is calculated and then considered together as a single profile or pattern, e.g., 13-11-13-10 or 14-8-15-6.
Each of these VNTR patterns identifies a unique strain of L. intracellularis, which information is used for epidemiologic analysis such as determining the source of an outbreak, tracking the spread of disease, and monitoring eradication.
There are more than 20 known antigens associated with the Lutheran blood group (24 antigens reported as of 2018 ), all based on the expression of two codominant alleles, Lu^a and Lu^b.
Lutheran antigens rarely cause serious transfusion reactions or hemolytic disease of the newborn (possibly because of weak expression on cord red blood cells).
High frequency antigens include Lu2, Lu3, Lu4, Lu5, Lu6, Lu7, Lu8, Lu11, Lu12, Lu13, Lu16, Lu17, Lu20, and Lu21.
Oxybutynin (Ditropan, Lyrinel XL) is an anticholinergic medication used to relieve urinary and bladder difficulties, including frequent urination and inability to control urination (urge incontinence), by decreasing muscle spasms of the bladder.
It competitively antagonizes the M1, M2, and M3 subtypes of the muscarinic acetylcholine receptor.
It also has direct spasmolytic effects on bladder smooth muscle as a calcium antagonist and local anesthetic, but at concentrations far above those used clinically.
It is available orally in generic formulation and as the brand-names Ditropan and Lyrinel XL, as a transdermal patch under the brand name Oxytrol, and as a topical gel under the brand name Gelnique.
Oxybutynin is also a possible treatment of hyperhidrosis, or hyper-active sweating.
The type species of ORBIVIRUS causing a serious disease in sheep, especially lambs.
It may also infect wild ruminants and other domestic animals.
1,4-Dimethylbenzene (p-Xylene) is an aromatic hydrocarbon, based on benzene with two methyl substituents.
The "p" stands for para, identifying the location of the methyl groups as across from one another.
It is an isomer of xylene.
Other isomers include o-xylene and m-xylene.
P-Xylene is used on a large scale for the manufacture of terephthalic acid for polyester.
Its polymer is known as Parylene.
P-Xylene is produced by catalytic reforming and separated in a series of distillation and reaction processes from m-xylene, o-xylene and ethylbenzene.
Its melting point is the highest among this series of isomers, but simple crystallization does not allow easy purification due to the formation of eutectic mixtures.
It is characterized as hazardous and carcinogenic.
It is harmful to people's health.
It can be breathed in, ingested and absorbed through skin.
It has a stimulating effect on the respiratory tract and eyes, while high concentrations have a narcotic effect on the central nervous system.
Galectin-3 is a member of the protein family known as galectins.
Galectins bind to certain carbohydrates via specific carbohydrate recognition domains (CRDs) Blood levels of galectin-3 may be increased in patients with certain forms of advanced cancer and other conditions with organ fibrosis.
The ACADVL gene (acyl-CoA dehydrogenase, very long chain) is located on chromosome 17p13.1.
The protein encoded by this gene is targeted to the inner mitochondrial membrane where it catalyzes the first step of the mitochondrial fatty acid beta-oxidation pathway.
This acyl-Coenzyme A dehydrogenase is specific to long-chain and very-long-chain fatty acids.
A deficiency in this gene product reduces myocardial fatty acid beta-oxidation and is associated with cardiomyopathy.
Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms.
Iron is a mineral that is naturally present in many foods, added to some food products, and available as a supplement.
Iron is an essential component of hemoglobin.
As a component of myoglobin, a protein that provides oxygen to muscles, iron supports metabolism.
Iron is also necessary for growth, development, normal cellular functioning, and synthesis of some hormones and connective tissue.
Dietary iron has two main forms: heme and nonheme.
Plants and iron-fortified foods contain nonheme iron only, whereas meat, seafood, and poultry contain both heme and nonheme iron.
The richest sources of heme iron in the diet include lean meat and seafood.
Dietary sources of nonheme iron include nuts, beans, vegetables, and fortified grain products.
A calcium channel blocker that is a class IV anti-arrhythmia agent.
Distance from the CF point (where the Frankfort Horizontal plane crosses the Pterygoid vertical line) to constructed Gonion
A quinazoline-sulfonamide that is considered a thiazide-like diuretic which is long-acting so useful in chronic RENAL FAILURE.
It also tends to lower BLOOD PRESSURE and increase POTASSIUM loss.
Xipamide is a sulfonamide diuretic drug marketed by under the trade names Aquaphor and Aquaphoril.
It is used for the treatment of oedema and hypertension.
Clonazolam is a triazolobenzodiazepine that has increasingly been observed in forensic casework.
Identification of metabolites is important to identify the use and abuse, with the amino metabolite, 8-Aminoclonazolam, being the major one.
A sulfated plasma protein with the MW of approximately 66kDa that resembles ANTITHROMBIN III.
The protein is an inhibitor of thrombin in plasma and is activated by dermatan sulfate or heparin.
It is a member of the serpin superfamily.
A gastrointestinal peptide hormone of about 43-amino acids.
Pericardial drainage (pericardiocentesis) is generally necessary for patients with an excess of fluid around the heart (pericardial effusion) in order to relieve pressure on the heart and avoid heart dysfunction.
It can also be used as a diagnostic tool to understand the cause of the effusion.
It can be performed as either a routine or emergency procedure.
A semi-synthetic cephalosporin antibiotic.
The EGR2 gene (early growth response 2) is located on chromosome 10q21.1.
The protein encoded by this gene is a transcription factor with three tandem C2H2-type zinc fingers.
Defects in this gene are associated with Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease type 1D (CMT1D), Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease type 4E (CMT4E), and with Dejerine-Sottas syndrome (DSS).
Multiple transcript variants encoding two different isoforms have been found for this gene.
Cefpirome is a fourth-generation cephalosporin.
Considered highly active against gram negative, including p. aeruginosa, and gram positive bacteria.
Immunoglobulin D (IgD) is an antibody isotype that makes up about 1% of proteins in the plasma membranes of immature B-lymphocytes where it is usually coexpressed with another cell surface antibody called IgM. IgD is also produced in a secreted form that is found in very small amounts in blood serum.
Secreted IgD is produced as a monomeric antibody with two heavy chains of the delta (δ) class, and two Ig light chains.
A genus of small, circular RNA viruses in the family ASTROVIRIDAE.
They cause gastroenteritis and are found in the stools of several vertebrates including humans.
Transmission is by the fecal-oral route.
There are at least eight human serotypes and the type species is Human astrovirus 1.
Procedure note is a broad term that encompasses many specific types of non-operative procedures including interventional cardiology, interventional radiology, gastrointestinal endoscopy, osteopathic manipulation, and many other specialty fields.
Procedure Notes are differentiated from Operative Notes in that the procedures documented do not involve incision or excision as the primary act.
The Procedure Note is created immediately following a non-operative procedure and records the indications for the procedure and, when applicable, post-procedure diagnosis, pertinent events of the procedure, and the patient's tolerance of the procedure.
There are about 37 recognized species of Cryptococcus.
The majority of species live in the soil and are not harmful to humans.
Very common species include Cryptococcus laurentii and Cryptococcus albidus.
Of all species, Cryptococcus neoformans is the major human and animal pathogen.
However, Cryptococcus laurentii and Cryptococcus albidus have been known to occasionally cause moderate-to-severe disease in human patients with compromised immunity.
PBG (Porphobilinogen) clinically is used to diagnose porphyria cutanea tarda, hereditary coproporphyria, and variegate porphyria.
Rickettsia honei is a species of Rickettsia.
It can cause Flinders Island spotted fever.
Porphobilinogen (PBG) deaminase testing is used in the diagnosis of acute intermittent porphyria.
An imidazole derivative with a broad spectrum of antimycotic activity.
It inhibits biosynthesis of the sterol ergostol, an important component of fungal cell membranes.
Its action leads to increased membrane permeability and apparent disruption of enzyme systems bound to the membrane.
Disaccharidases are glycoside hydrolases, enzymes that break down certain types of sugars called disaccharides into simpler sugars called monosaccharides.
A genetic defect in one of these enzymes will cause a disaccharide intolerance, such as lactose intolerance or sucrose intolerance.
Examples of disaccharidases: lactase, maltase, sucrase, trehalase
Nicotine (tobacco products) metabolizes to cotinine.
Cotinine undergoes further metabolism to trans-3'-hydroxycotinine.
Trans-3'-hydroxycotinine represents the major renal excretion product of nicotine.
Cotinine and trans-3'-hydroxycotinine are present in biological fluids with apparent elimination half-lives of 20 hours and 15 hours, respectively.
The total volume of gas delivered by a single gas delivery system, potentially across multiple cases.
Xylose is a monosaccharide sugar with five carbon atoms and an aldehyde functional group.
Also known as wood sugar, xylose has only 40% the sweetness of sucrose.
The embryo of many edible plants, corncobs, cottonseed hulls, pecan shells, and straw all contain a fair amount of xylose.
The oral dextrose tolerance is used to estimate carbohydrate malabsorption in patients with celiac disease and nontropical sprue.
The dextrose tolerance test also helps to differentiate digestive from absorptive abnormalities in patients with steatorrhea.
The fasting patient is given a specific amount of xylose.
Over the next five hours, all urine is collected, pooled together and refrigerated.
Venous blood is drawn at 30 minutes, one hour, one and-a-
half hours, two hours, three hours, and four hours post xylose ingestion.
The xylose levels in the blood and urine samples are measured.
Higher levels of xylose in the blood and urine correlate to increased absorption.
The coronary artery branch, lesion or stent start and end segment positions specify a more precise location within a given segment, and the start and end coordinates specify the combined segment/segment position information.
For example, in one model, each segment of the coronary artery, which segments are defined by the American Heart Association (AHA), is divided into ten parts, numbered 0 to 9.
The start location of a specific branch, lesion or stent placement is represented as: Start segment: {AHA segment name/number} Start segment position: {0-9} Start coordinates: {AHA segment name/number}-{position 0-9} The lesion's end location is specified following the same format, as is the location of an additional branch in cases where a lesion is present at a significant artery bifurcation and which itself bifurcates.
Form HCFA-2744 (11-88) ESRD FACILITY SURVEY
Degree of fibrinolysis relative to the maximum clot firmness (reported as %)
An anticonvulsant especially useful in the treatment of absence seizures unaccompanied by other types of seizures.
Ubiquinone 10 (CoQ10) is an important member of the mitochondrial respiratory chain that plays a role in oxidative phosphorylation.
CoQ10 is present in subcellular fractions and in plasma lipoproteins where it functions as an antioxidant.
There have been many studies on the effects treatment with CoQ10 can have on a number of systems in the body including: an effect on gene expression; improvement of endothelium-bound extracellular superoxide dismutase (edSOD) in patients with coronary artery disease (ecSOD is thought to protect blood vessels against oxidant-induced damage); decrease in blood pressure; improvement of patients' diastolic dysfunction, mean interventricular septal thickness, and posterior wall thickness in hypertrophic cardiomyopathy; improvement in seminal plasma volume and sperm cell motility; reduction in the risk of pre-eclampsia.
A deficiency of CoQ10 is associated with worse outcomes in chronic heart failure.
3-Hydroxyisobutyrate dehydrogenase (HIBADH) is a dimeric mitochondrial enzyme involved in amino-acid degradation, specifically catabolism of L-valine.
Deficiency of HIBADH enzyme is thought to cause 3-hydroxyisobutyric aciduria since 3-hydroxyisobutyric acid is an intermediate in the catabolism of valine.
More recent evidence suggests individuals with 3-hydroxyisobutyryic aciduria represent a heterogeneous group with different underlying mechanisms.
Barbiturates were first developed in 1864 by Adolf von Baeyer and were widely distributed by the Farbwerke Fr Bayer and Co in 1904.
Barbiturates offered new treatment to patients with psychiatric and neurological disorders profoundly improving their prognoses.
Barbiturates were also used to treat sleep disorders and were the first drugs to effectively treat epileptic seizures.
Due to safety concerns related to drug dependence and overdose and new safer psychoactive medications barbiturate use sharply declined in the 1950s.
Secobarbital was first introduce in 1929 by Horace A Shonle and is a barbiturate derivative drug with anesthetic, anticonvulsant, sedative and hypnotic properties.
The principal cyclooxygenase metabolite of arachidonic acid.
It is released upon activation of mast cells and is also synthesized by alveolar macrophages.
Among its many biological actions, the most important are its bronchoconstrictor, platelet-activating-factor-inhibitory, and cytotoxic effects.
U1 small nuclear ribonucleoprotein particle (U1 snRNP) is an RNA-protein complex that is composed of ten proteins: U1-70kD, U1A, U1C and seven Smith antigen (Sm) proteins.
The U1 snRNP complex is responsible for pre-mRNA processing.
Autoantibodies to different components of the U1 snRNP complex are associated with autoimmune conditions including systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) and mixed connective tissue disorders (MCTD), which includes systemic sclerosis.
The pattern of autoantibodies present in an individual patient may help distinguish between different connective tissue disorders.
For example, patients with anti-U1A and anti-U1C IgM antibodies are more likely to have SLE than MCTD.
In addition, there is some evidence that specific antibody patterns are associated with specific symptoms.
For example, among patients with SLE, the combination of anti-U1-70kD, anti-U1A and anti-U1C correlates with Raynaud's phenomenon, while anti-U1-70kD and anti-U1A (without anti-U1C) correlate with leukopenia.
Another study found an association between the number of specific positive antibodies within the anti-U1 snRNP (rather than the presence of particular markers) and certain clinical features.
For example, patients with three or more positive autoantibodies were more likely to have features of systemic sclerosis and less likely to have renal disease compared to patients with fewer types of antibodies.
The FGA, FGB and FGG genes encode the 3 distinct protein subunits of fibrinogen, which has a well-established role in formation of the fibrin matrix of blood clots after proteolysis by factor IIa.
Mutations resulting in fibrinogen disorders can be either quantitative (afibrinogenemia or hypofibrinogenemia) or functional (dysfibrinogenemia), and can affect any of the 3 subunits.
Clinical severity can be highly variable, manifested as bleeding of the CNS GI, GU, skin, or umbilical cord neonatally.
Not surprisingly, those with the lowest levels (below 0.5 g/L) are associated with more severe bleeding.
Those with dysfibrinogenemia can have either bleeding or thromboembolic complications.
Potassium metabisulfite is used as a preservative for friuts and vegetables and as an antifermentative in beer and wine industries.
The anterior-inferior angle formed by the Frankfort Horizontal line and the Mandibular line (Gonion-Menton)
Napsin A is an aspartic protease found in lung and kidney epithelial cells.
Its expression is associated with lung adenocarcinoma and papillary and clear cell renal carcinomas.
It has also been found in clear cell ovarian and endometrial carcinoma, as well as a subset of thyroid tumors .
Babesia microti is a parasite that invades human red blood cells and is transmitted by the Ixodid scapularis tick.
Infection by the Babesia species was first discovered in Croatia in 1957, but has proven to exist across the world in the last fifty years.
B. microti is the most common babesiosis parasite in the United States.
It was first discovered in the Northeast, but has spread to counties of the lower Hudson River Valley of New York State and on to the upper Midwest.
Thirty-five patients were reported to be infected with B. microti by the Minnesota Department of Health in 2009.
The Babesia parasites possess vesicles that secrete enzymes that facilitates its entrance into the host erythrocytes.
They reproduces asexually in red blood cells and sexually in the Ixodid scapularis tick.
Infection with Babesia leads to a wide range and severity of symptoms.
Symptoms that are characterized as mild to moderate include fever, fatigue, chills, sweats, headache, myalgia, anorexia cough, arthralgia and nausea.
Symptoms of severe illness are seen most often in patients who are immunosuppressed due to infections like Human immunodeficiency virus and conditions such as cancer.
Severe symptoms of Babesia infection include respiratory failure, disseminated intravascular coagulation, congestive heart failure, liver and renal failure, and splenic infarction.
There are several ways to diagnose infections with Babesia including thick and thin smear analysis, polymerase chain reaction, indirect immunofluorescence antibody, and by injecting patient blood into a hamster and waiting for severe parasitemia to develop in 2-4 weeks.
Treatment of Babesia infection is with antibiotics or exchange transfusion when the parasite load in the blood becomes very high.
F2-Isoprostanes, also known as 8-iso-prostaglandin F2alpha and F2-IsoPs, are formed from the peroxidation of arachidonic acid and are measured as a marker of oxidative stress.
Urine F2-IsoPs are markers for multiple conditions, including atherosclerosis and coronary disease, diabetes, hypertension, hyperlipidemia, obesity, and cigarette smoking.
Exercise may lower the level of circulating F2-IsoPs, especially in patients with high baseline levels of F2-IsoPs.
The significant metabolite of mephenytoin is nirvanol (5-ethyl-5-phenylhydantoin), which was the first hydantoin (briefly used as a hypnotic).
However, nirvanol is quite toxic and mephenytoin was only considered after other less toxic anticonvulsants had failed.
It can cause potentially fatal blood dyscrasia in 1% of patients.
Pregnenolone is a steroid hormone that is increased with hirsutism, adrenal carcinoma, and Cushing's syndrome due to ACTH-secreting pituitary adenoma or ectopic ACTH-secreting tumor.
Levels should normally increase following adrenocorticotropic hormone(ACTH) stimulation.
Information from Tietz Clinical Guide to Laboratory Tests, 4th edition, AHB Wu, 2006.
The protease gene and the reverse transcriptase gene of the viral genome are sequenced and mutations identified.
Mutations at codons thought to be associated with drug resistance are analyzed and reported using drug resistance rules-based algorithms.
Novel mutations may also be identified and reported.
The quantity prescribed is the total amount of medication, e.g., 30 tablets or 100 mL, ordered by the provider.
The amount dispensed is the total amount of medication actually dispensed by the pharmacy.
The quantity prescribed and amount dispensed may not always be the same.
A sedative and hypnotic that has been used in the short-term management of insomnia.
Its use has been superseded by other drugs.
The most common type of casts, hyaline casts are solidified Tamm-Horsfall mucoproteins secreted from the tubular epithelial cells of individual nephrons.
Low urine flow, concentrated urine, or an acidic environment can contribute to the formation of hyaline casts, and, as such, they may be seen in normal individuals in dehydration or vigorous exercise.
Hyaline casts are cylindrical and clear, with a low refractive index, so that they can easily be missed on cursory review under brightfield microscopy, or in an aged sample where dissolution has occurred.
On the other hand, phase contrast microscopy leads to easier identification.
Given the ubiquitous presence of Tamm-Horsfall protein, other cast types are formed via the inclusion or adhesion of other elements to the hyaline base.
A local anesthetic used as an antiarrhythmia agent.
It is more potent than procaine but its effect is shorter than that of bupivacaine or prilocaine.
Leu-enkephalin is an endogenous opioid peptide neurotransmitter with the amino acid sequence Tyr-Gly-Gly-Phe-Leu that is found naturally in the brains of many animals, including humans.
It is one of the two forms of enkephalin; the other is met-enkephalin.
The tyrosine residue at position 1 is thought to be analogous to the 3-hydroxyl group on morphine.
The USH1C gene (Usher syndrome 1C (autosomal recessive, severe)) is located on chromosome 11p14.3.
This gene encodes a scaffold protein that functions in the assembly of Usher protein complexes.
The protein contains PDZ domains, a coiled-coil region with a bipartite nuclear localization signal and a PEST degradation sequence.
Defects in this gene are the cause of Usher syndrome type 1C and non-syndromic sensorineural deafness autosomal recessive type 18.
Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
The L1CAM gene (L1 cell adhesion molecule) is located on chromosome Xq28.
The protein encoded by this gene is an axonal glycoprotein belonging to the immunoglobulin supergene family.
The ectodomain, consisting of several immunoglobulin-like domains and fibronectin-like repeats (type III), is linked via a single transmembrane sequence to a conserved cytoplasmic domain.
This cell adhesion molecule plays an important role in nervous system development, including neuronal migration and differentiation.
Mutations in the gene cause X-linked neurological syndromes known as CRASH (corpus callosum hypoplasia, retardation, aphasia, spastic paraplegia and hydrocephalus).
Alternative splicing of this gene results in multiple transcript variants, some of which include an alternate exon that is considered to be specific to neurons.
First cultivated by the Incas, the potato (Solanum tuberosum of the genus Solanium) is a perennial plant of the Solanaceae, or nightshade, family, commonly grown for its starchy tuber.
Solanine is found in the green parts of the plant.
Potatoes are the world's most widely grown tuber crop, and the fourth largest crop in terms of fresh produce (after rice, wheat, and maize), but this ranking is inflated due to the high water content of fresh potatoes relative to that of other crops.
Clear hexagonal plates, other layered together, associated with cystinuria or congenitial cytinosis.
Koontz A. Clinical Significance of Formed Elements in Urine.
2-decenedioic acid (or 2E-decenedioic acid) is a medium-chain fatty acid (MCFA).
Sufentanil is a powerful opioid agonist and is used as a primary anesthetic drug, adjunct in anesthesia, and in balanced anesthesia.
It produces a deep level of anesthesia and depending upon how it is administered, sufentanil is 5-10 times as potent as fentanyl.
The analgesic affect of sufentanil is most likely because it is converted to morphine.
Carisoprodol (N-isopropylmeprobamate, Soma, ingredient of Soma Compound) is a carbamate derivative first synthesized in 1959 and used clinically as a muscle relaxant and sedative.
Carisoprodol is known to be metabolized to meprobamate and hydroxyl-meprobamate.
Meprobamate is the major metabolite of carisoprodol, and is a CNS depressant in its own right, indicated for the management of anxiety disorders or for short-term treatment of anxiety symptoms.
Use of these drugs begins with a prescription for muscular pain or anxiety, and abuse may develop for the sedative-hypnotic effects.
Piperacillin is an extended spectrum beta-lactam antibiotic of the ureidopenicillin class.
It is normally used together with the beta-lactamase inhibitor tazobactam to form Tazocin ® or Zosyn ® (marketed by Wyeth-Ayerst).
The combination has activity against many Gram-positive and Gram-negative pathogens and anaerobes, including Pseudomonas aeruginosa.
Piperacillintazobactam is administered intravenously.
Its main uses are in intensive care medicine (pneumonia, peritonitis), some diabetes-related foot infections and empirical therapy in febrile neutropenia (e.g. after chemotherapy).
Staphylococcus aureus enterotoxins (SEs) are heat stable enterotoxins that are responsible for gastroenteritis resulting from ingestion of contaminated food.
Many isolates contain multiple SEs.
There are at least 5 traditional serotypes (SEA,SEB,SEC,SED, SEE), and some more recent additions (SEG,H and I).
They are serologically distinct proteins, but have similar biological activity.
SEA is the most prevalent cause of food poisoning.
Memantine is the first in a novel class of Alzheimer's disease medications acting on the glutamatergic system by blocking NMDA glutamate receptors.
Memantine is marketed under the brands Axura and Akatinol by Merz, Namenda by Forest, Ebixa and Abixa by Lundbeck and Memox by Unipharm.
IDL (Intermediate-density lipoprotein) is a triglyceride rich, apo B-containing, lipoprotein intermediate in density and size between LDL and VLDL.
Moderately increased levels of IDL cholesterol are closely associated with a high frequency of coronary artery disease.
Fosamprenavir is a pro-drug of the protease inhibitor and antiretroviral drug amprenavir.
Saturated fat is fat that consists of triglycerides containing only saturated fatty acid radicals.
There are several kinds of naturally-occurring saturated fatty acids, which differ by the number of carbon atoms, ranging from 3 carbons (Propionic Acid) to 36 (Hexatriacontanoic acid).
Saturated fatty acids have no double bonds between the carbon atoms of the fatty acid chain and are thus fully saturated with hydrogen atoms.
Fat that occurs naturally in living matter contains varying proportions of saturated and unsaturated fat.
Examples of foods containing a high proportion of saturated fat include dairy products (especially cream and cheese but also butter and ghee), animal fats such as suet, tallow, lard and fatty meat, coconut oil, cottonseed oil, palm kernel oil, chocolate, and some prepared foods.
Serum saturated fatty acid is generally higher in smokers, alcohol drinkers and obese people.
A spice, which may result in allergy symptoms in sensitised individuals.
Anise is an annual herb cultivated in many countries but native to Southern Europe and the Mediterranean.
A member of the Apiaceae family, it is related to Caraway, Dill, Cumin, and Fennel.
The dried fruits have been used for centuries for flavouring drinks, pastries, and candies.
The ancients prized it as a medicinal plant.
Anise may commonly induce symptoms of food allergy in sensitised individuals (9), in particular in individuals who are allergic to Mugwort and Birch pollen or in Celery-sensitive patients.
Allergens in spices are particularly risky due to their hidden presence in many dishes.
Reactions to Anise may be severe.
Urticaria as a result of contact with Anise has been documented.
Occupational exposure to Anise may occur in spice factory workers and in liqueur and spirit manufacturers.
The M250I/L/V mutations are associated with Entecavir resistance
Hemoglobin Barts is a relatively common hemoglobin variant consisting of four gamma chains.
Hemoglobin Barts is an extremely high affinity hemoglobin that is not effective at delivering oxygen to tissues.
Hemoglobin Barts is only seen during the newborn period and usually indicates that one or more of the baby's alpha-globin genes are deleted, resulting in alpha-thalassemia.
Alpha thalassemia is caused by deletions of the alpha globin genes on chromosome 16.
Normal patients have four copies of the alpha-globin gene, 2 on each chromosome.
A silent carrier will have one deleted alpha gene and usually result in a benign condition.
Alpha thalassmia trait occurs when there are two deleted alpha genes, resulting in mild or no anemia with microcytosis and hypochromia.
Hemoglobin H disease results from the deletion of three alpha genes with resultant moderately severe alpha thalassemia.
Most patients are anemic and display some degree of splenomegaly.
Fetal hydrops syndrome occurs when all four alpha genes are deleted.
Fetal hydrops is not compatible with life and death occurs in utero or during early infancy.
Carrier states for alpha thalassemia are very common in the African, Meditteranean and Asian populations.
In general, only the loss of one or two genes is seen in African Americans.
Asian and Meditteranean populations may have all types of alpha thalassemia.
Blue Grama (Bouteloua gracilis), is a long-lived, warm season, C4 perennial grass native to North America.
It is most commonly found from Alberta east to Manitoba and south across the Rocky Mountains, Great Plains, and Midwest states to Mexico.
Methapyrilene is an antihistamine and anticholinergic of the pyridine chemical class which was developed in the early 1950s.
It was sold under the trade names Co-Pyronil and Histadyl EC.
It has relatively strong sedative effects, to the extent that its primary use was as a medication for insomnia rather than for its antihistamine action.
This snake-like fish with a smooth, slimy skin is popular in Europe and the Far East, particularly in Japan.
In the last two decades there has been a noticeable increase in demand.
The Japanese pioneered eel culture more than 150 years ago.
Eels are disting-uished by several characteristics: color, dorsal fin length, size, head shape, habitat and distribution.
The amazing life cycle begins when these catadromous fish first spawn at sea but then spend most of their lives in inland waters.
The fish is rich in vitamins A, E and calcium.
They are eaten fresh, smoked and jellied.
Specific IgE antibodies to eel have been demonstrated in patient groups with atopic dermatitis and/or respiratory symptoms.
Hairy cells are malignant B-cells that appear as fine (hairlike) microvilli
under a microscope due to the characteristic cytoplasmic projections.
Patient's with hairy cell leukemia (HCL), a type of chronic lymphoid leukemia, have excess hairy cells which accumulate in the bone marrow and interfer with the production of white blood cells, red blood cells, and platelets.
Coronary vasodilator used especially for angina of effort.
It may cause neuropathy and hepatitis.
The BBS2 gene (Bardet-Biedl syndrome 2) is located on chromosome 16q21.
This gene is a member of the Bardet-Biedl syndrome (BBS) gene family.
Bardet-Biedl syndrome is an autosomal recessive disorder characterized by severe pigmentary retinopathy, obesity, polydactyly, renal malformation and mental retardation.
The proteins encoded by BBS gene family members are structurally diverse and the similar phenotypes exhibited by mutations in BBS gene family members is likely due to their shared roles in cilia formation and function.
Many BBS proteins localize to the basal bodies, ciliary axonemes, and pericentriolar regions of cells.
BBS proteins may also be involved in intracellular trafficking via microtubule-related transport.
The protein encoded by this gene forms a multiprotein BBSome complex with seven other BBS proteins.
Total Iron Binding Capacity (TIBC) correlates with serum transferrin.
TIBC is increased in iron-deficiency anemia, oral contraceptive use, and in late pregnancy.
TIBC is decreased in hypoproteinemia, chronic infections, hemochromatosis, cirrhosis, neoplastic and renal disease, and thalassemia.
Information from Tietz Clinical Guide to Laboratory Tests, 4th edition, AHB Wu, 2006.
Human bocavirus (HBoV) is a virus belonging to the Parvoviridae family, which has been newly discovered to be associated with respiratory tract infections in children.
Four genotypes exist: HBoV1, associated with respiratory infections, and HBoV2-4, linked to gastrointestinal infections.
HBoV1 is typically found in respiratory specimens, while HBoV2-4 are more common in stool samples.
Cysteine-S-sulfate (SSC) is produced by reaction of inorganic sulfite and cystine by a yet unknown pathway and is a very potent NMDA-receptor agonist.
Electrophysiological studies have shown that SSC displays depolarizing properties similar to glutamate.
Patients affected with either Molybdenum cofactor deficiency (MOCOD, an autosomal recessive disease that leads to a combined deficiency of the enzymes sulphite oxidase, an enzyme that catalyzes the conversion of sulfite to inorganic sulfate, xanthine dehydrogenase and aldehyde oxidase) or isolated sulphite oxidase deficiency (ISOD, an extremely rare autosomal recessive disorder with identical clinical manifestations to MOCOD) excrete elevated levels of SSC.
This rare disorder is associated with brain damage (seizures, spastic quadriplegia, and cerebral atrophy), mental retardation, dislocated ocular lenses, blindness, and excretion in the urine of abnormally large amounts of SSC, sulfite, and thiosulfate but no inorganic sulfate., .
Red cell antibodies that react more strongly at temperatures below 37 deg C.
A purine nucleoside that has hypoxanthine linked by the N9 nitrogen to the C1 carbon of ribose.
It is an intermediate in the degradation of purines and purine nucleosides to uric acid and in pathways of purine salvage.
It also occurs in the anticodon of certain transfer RNA molecules.
Major histocompatibility complex, class II, DR beta 1, also known as HLA-DRB1, is a human gene.
DRB1 encodes the most prevalent beta subunit of HLA-DR.
Epidermal allergen mix 72 (EX72) detects budgerigar feather (e78), canary feather (e201), finch feather (e214), parakeet feather (e196), and parrot feather (e213) IgE antibodies.
Testing for IgE antibodies may be used to help diagnose an allergic disease or the cause of an anaphylactic episode in a patient.
Enzyme and fluorescent-based assays, which were preceded by the RAST test (Radio-AllergoSorbent Test), are performed to detect allergen-specific IgE in the patient's serum.
N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor 1 (NMDAR1) is subunit of NMDA receptors and belongs to the glutamate receptor channel superfamily.
It is encoded by the GRIN1 (Glutamate receptor subunit zeta-1) gene located on chromosome 9q34.3.
Glutamate receptors are highly permeable to calcium and important for nervous system functioning.
NMDAR1 antibodies are detected in patients with paraneoplastic syndromes, autoimmune encephalopathies and related conditions.
Identification of specific antineuronal autoantibodies may direct evaluation for underlying malignancy.
Characterization of autoantibody specificity may allow syndromic classification and assist in diagnosis and management.
3-Methylhistidine is an amino acid occurring in myofibrillar proteins and important in the synthesis of carnosine.
Increased levels of 3-Methylhistidine indicative of active catabolism of muscle protein.
2-Methylbutyrylglycine (2-MBG) is an acyl glycine generated by the L-isoleucine oxidation pathway.
Increased levels of 2-MBG is a hallmark in short/branched-chain acyl-CoA dehydrogenase deficiency (SBCADD), an autosomal recessive inherited condition caused by a defect in isoleucine catabolism.
Increasing evidence indicates that moths are potentially a significant source of both indoor and outdoor inhalant allergens.
Moths are characterised by wings covered with scales, and these are suggested to be the major vectors in airborne exposure.
Increasing evidence indicates that moths are potentially a significant source of both indoor and outdoor inhalant allergens.
Occupational moth allergy has also been reported in bakers, in laboratory workers involved in gypsy moth research, and in workers in biological pest control factories engaged in the production of beneficial arthropods.
Clozapine (sold as Clozaril ®, Leponex ®, Fazaclo ®) was the first of the atypical antipsychotics to be developed.
It was approved by the United States Food and Drug Administration (FDA) in 1989 and is the only FDA-approved medication indicated for treatment-resistant schizophrenia and for reducing the risk of suicidal behaviour in patients with schizophrenia.
A trace element that constitutes about 27.6% of the earth's crust in the form of SILICON DIOXIDE.
It does not occur free in nature.
Silicon has the atomic symbol Si, atomic number 14, and atomic weight 28.09.
Effluent pressure is the pressure of the effluent in the circuit.
The effluent is comprised of ultrafiltrate and/or spent dialysate fluid, depending on the type of renal replacement therapy.
A decreasing effluent pressure with increasing transmembrane pressure (TMP) is an indicator of membrane clogging due to protein build-up on the blood side of the filter.
Opiates are narcotic drugs sometimes used to control pain, but have high abuse potential.
Opiates tend to relax users.
This group of drugs includes opium, morphine, and codeine.
Synthetic opiates based on the phenanthrene nucleus of morphine include hydromorphone, hydrocodone, oxymorphone, oxycodone, dihydrocodeine, meperidine, and levorphanol.
Opium comes in chunks and powder and may be eaten or smoked.
Heroin is a manufactured opiate and is made into a powder that may be dissolved in water and injected.
(Jacobs and DeMott Laboratory Test Handbook, 5th edition, DS Jacobs, WR DeMott and DK Oxley, 2001)
1,4-Dichlorobenzene (para-dichlorobenzene, p-DCB, PDB) is an organic compound with the formula C6H4Cl2.
This colorless solid has a strong odour.
It consists of two chlorine atoms substituted at opposing sites on a benzene ring.
p-DCB is used a pesticide and a deodorant, most familiarly in mothballs in which it is a replacement for the more traditional naphthalene.
p-DCB is also used as a precursor in the production of the polymer poly(p-phenylene sulfide).
The US Department of Health and Human Services (DHHS) and the International Agency for Research on Cancer (IARC) have determined that p-DCB may reasonably be anticipated to be a carcinogen, although there is no direct evidence.
Animals given very high levels in water developed liver and kidney tumors.
A XANTHINE OXIDASE inhibitor that decreases URIC ACID production.
It also acts as an antimetabolite on some simpler organisms.
A pyridinium-substituted semisynthetic, broad-spectrum antibacterial used especially for Pseudomonas infections in debilitated patients.
Alkyl-dihydroxyacetonephosphate (alkyl-DHAP) synthase is involved in the biosynthesis of plasmalogens.
Alkyl-DHAP synthase is deficient in rhizomelic chondrodysplasia punctata type 2 (RCDP2), a lethal autosomal recessive disease is characterized by shortening or proximal extremities, severely altered endochondrial bone formation, and mental retardation with spasticity.
A section to capture the elements to ensure safe use, for standardizing the risk evaluation and mitigation strategies (REMS) information for inclusion into pharmacy systems.
Endothelins are proteins that constrict blood vessels and raise blood pressure.
They are normally kept in balance by other mechanisms, but when they are over-expressed, they contribute to high blood pressure (hypertension) and heart disease.
Vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) is a sub-family of growth factors, specifically the platelet-derived growth factor family of cystine-knot growth factors.
The most important member is VEGF-A. Other members are Placenta growth factor (PGF), VEGF-B, VEGF-C and VEGF-D.
The latter ones were discovered later than VEGF-A, and, before their discovery, VEGF-A was called just VEGF.
VEGF growth factors are important signaling proteins involved in both vasculogenesis and angiogenesis.
When these growth factors are overexpressed, they can contribute to conditions such as cancer, bronchial asthma and diabetes mellitus.
Overexpression of VEGFs can also cause vascular disease in the retina of the eye and other parts of the body.
Drugs such as bevacizumab can inhibit VEGFs and control or slow those diseases.
Dexamethasone is a potent synthetic member of the glucocorticoid class of steroid hormones.
It acts as an anti-inflammatory and immunosuppressant.
Its potency is about 40 times that of hydrocortisone.
Testing for androstenedione is used to diagnose viralizing syndromes including congenital adrenal hyperplasia, female virilization, hirsutism, polycystic ovarian disease, Stein-Levethal syndrome.
and to detect abuse of anabolic steroids.
It is also a drug- an anabolic steroid- used to enhance atheletic performance, but banned as an OTC drug by the FDA in 2004.
Codeine-6-glucuronide (C6G) is a major active metabolite of codeine and may be responsible for a majority of the analgesic effects of codeine.
C6G is one of several opioid compounds (parent drug and metabolites) that may be tested in urine to monitor compliance or identify opioid drug use.
Norepinephrine, a precursor of epinephrine secreted by the adrenal medulla, is a widespread central and autonomic neurotransmitter.
It is the principal transmitter of most postganglionic sympathetic fibers and of the diffuse projection system in the brain arising from the locus ceruleus.
It is also found in plants and is used pharmacologically as a sympathomimetic.
Cannabidiol (CBD) is extracted from the Cannabis plant and unlike other phytocannabinoids lacks any psychoactive properties.
CBD does demonstrate analgesic, anti-inflammatory, antineoplastic and chemopreventive characteristics.
The CBD qualities of anti-proliferative, anti-angiogenic and pro-apoptotic leads to the inhibition of cancer cell invasiveness and metastasis.
It may also help increase the uptake of cytotoxic agents in cancer cells.
The analgesic effect of CBD occurs when it binds to and activates the CB1 receptor.
Flurazepam (marketed under the brand name Dalmane ®) is a drug which is a benzodiazepine derivative.
It possesses anxiolytic, anticonvulsant, sedative and skeletal muscle relaxant properties.
Coagulation factor inhibitors can develop in patients with coagulation factor deficiencies after receiving factor therapy as well as in response to various antibiotics, chemotherapy and other conditions such as autoimmune disorders.
Factor II (prothrombin) autoantibodies are rare but can develop in patients with anti-phospholipid syndrome (APS) and systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE).
The presence of factor II inhibitors can present with bleeding and pregnancy complications such as recurrent miscarriage.
Clostridium botulinum is a gram positive, anaerobic bacterium that produces a potent neurotoxin that binds to presynaptic nerve terminals preventing release of acetylcholine, blocking neurotransmission.
C. botulinum Toxin types A, B, E, F can produce severe, potentially fatal illness in humans.
Types C and D are pathogenic in avians, and the pathogenicity of type G is unknown.
Illness can occur as foodborne botulism which occurs when a person ingests pre-formed toxin that leads to illness within a few hours to days.
Foodborne botulism is a public health emergency because the contaminated food may still be available to other persons besides the patient.
Infant botulism occurs in a small number of susceptible infants each year who become infected C. botulinum bacteria grow in their intestinal tract.
Wound botulism occurs when open skin lesions or wounds are infected with C. botulinum that secretes the toxin.
C. botulinum and the associated toxins are on the Department of Health and Human Services and the USDA list of Select Agents that could be used as weapons of bioterrorism.
Dengue viruses are in the Flavivirus genus of the Flaviviridae family.
Flaviviruses are enveloped, single-strand RNA viruses.
The genomic RNA encodes three structural proteins, C (core protein), M (membrane protein), and E (envelope protein).
The nonstructural (NS) proteins are NS1, NS2a, NS2b, NS3, NS4a, NS4b, and NS5.
NS1 is a glycoprotein that appears to be essential for virus viability but has no established biological activity.
NS1 is produced in both membrane-associated and secreted forms.
The NS1 antigen is present at high concentrations patients during the early clinical phase of the disease.
Adenosine is a nucleoside composed of a molecule of adenine attached to a ribose sugar molecule (ribofuranose) moiety via a β-N9-glycosidic bond.
Adenosine plays an important role in biochemical processes, such as energy transfer-as adenosine triphosphate (ATP) and adenosine diphosphate (ADP)-as well as in signal transduction as cyclic adenosine monophosphate, cAMP.
It is also an inhibitory neurotransmitter, believed to play a role in promoting sleep and suppressing arousal, with levels increasing with each hour an organism is awake.
21-Deoxycorticosterone (21-DB, C21H30O3) is a corticosteroid hormone secreted by the adrenal cortex and important in regulating water and electrolyte balance in the body.
Elevated levels of 21-DB in plasma have been detected in patients with 21-hydroxylase deficiency.
21-DB can also be produced synthetically and used to treat adrenal insufficiency.
Topiramate (known by brand names Topamax, Qudexy XR, and Trokendi XR) is an anticonvulsant used alone or with other medications to treat certain types of seizure, including primary generalized tonic seizures and partial onset seizures.
It can also be used to control seizures in people who have Lennox-Gastaut syndrome, a disorder that can cause impaired intellectual function, developmental delays, and behavioral disturbances in children.
Topiramate can be used to prevent migranes, but not to treat them when they occur.
Centroblasts are precursors to plasma cells and used in grading follicular lymphoma.
Clonazepam is a powerful benzodiazepine that was originally prescribed to treat seizure disorders but has increasingly been used to treat mood disorders including panic disorder and depression.
Clonazepam has been used to accelerate the response of selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) fluoxetine, fluvoxamine and sertraline and for treatment-resistant and prolonged depression.
Extended use of clonazepam with SSRIs helps prevent the recurrence of depression.
Clonazepam more effectively treats unipolar than bipolar depression.
Its mode of action is believed to be associated with the gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) system.
Metallo beta-lactamase (MBL) enzymes are resistance enzymes whose activity is dependent on divalent cations such as zinc or cadmium, so that they can be inhibited by metal chelators such as EDTA.
The presence of MBLs can be detected by comparing the inhibitory concentration (IC) of a specific antimicrobial, such as imipenem or meropenem, with the IC of that antimicrobial plus EDTA.
The SPG3A gene (atlastin GTPase 1) gene is located on chromosome 14q22.1.
The protein encoded by this gene is a GTPase and a Golgi body transmembrane protein.
The encoded protein can form a homotetramer and has been shown to interact with spastin and with mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase kinase kinase 4.
This protein may be involved in axonal maintenance as evidenced by the fact that defects in this gene are a cause of spastic paraplegia type 3.
Three transcript variants encoding two different isoforms have been found for this gene.
Green beans are the unripe fruits of any kind of bean.
Beans commonly eaten in this way include the yardlong bean, the hyacinth bean, the pea, the winged bean and especially the common bean known scientifically as Phaseolus vulgaris, whose pods are also called string beans or snap beans.
Varieties have been bred especially for the fleshiness, flavor, or sweetness of their pods.
Smaller bean pods are often referred to by the french name Haricots Verts.
Green beans are of nearly universal distribution.
They are marketed canned, frozen and fresh.
A popular dish with green beans, particularly at Thanksgiving, is green bean casserole.
Some restaurants (such as T.G.I. Friday's) serve green beans that are battered and fried.
Any of a group of polysaccharides of the general formula (C6-H10-O5)n, composed of a long-chain polymer of glucose in the form of amylose and amylopectin.
It is the chief storage form of energy reserve (carbohydrates) in plants.
Parasite of rats and snails that can cause human eosinophilic meningoencephalitis
Saffron is a spice derived from the flower of the saffron crocus (Crocus sativus), a species of crocus in the Iridaceae.
Lactobacillales or lactic acid bacteria (LAB) are an order of Gram-positive bacteria that are either rod- or coccus-shaped.
These bacteria, usually found in decomposing plants and milk products, produce lactic acid as the major metabolic end product of carbohydrate fermentation.
This trait has, throughout history, linked LAB with food fermentations, as acidification inhibits the growth of spoilage agents.
Proteinaceous bacteriocins are produced by several LAB strains and provide an additional hurdle for spoilage and pathogenic microorganisms.
Furthermore, lactic acid and other metabolic products contribute to the organoleptic and textural profile of a food item.
The industrial importance of the LAB is further evidenced by their generally recognized as safe (GRAS) status, due to their ubiquitous appearance in food and their contribution to the healthy microflora of human mucosal surfaces.
The genera that comprise the LAB are at its core Lactobacillus, Leuconostoc, Pediococcus, Lactococcus, and Streptococcus, as well as the more peripheral Aerococcus, Carnobacterium, Enterococcus, Oenococcus, Sporolactobacillus, Tetragenococcus, Vagococcus, and Weissella.
Heartwater, Cowdria ruminantium, is an infectious rickettsial disease of domestic and wild ruminants, spread by ticks in the genus Amblyomma.
Affected mammals include cattle, sheep, goats, antelope, and buffalo.
The disease's name is derived from the fact that fluid collects around the heart or in the lungs of infected animals.
It is common in most of Africa and some of the West Indian islands.
The symptoms include fever, loss of appetite and breathing difficulties, and it is frequently fatal.
The ticks which carry the disease occur in Africa and the Caribbean, and feed on a wide variety of vertebrate hosts.
A species of mussel in the genus MYTILUS, family MYTILIDAE, class BIVALVIA, known as the common mussel.
It has a bluish-black shell and is highly edible.
Tumor necrosis factor (TNF, cachexin or cachectin and formally known as tumor necrosis factor-alpha) is a cytokine involved in systemic inflammation and is a member of a group of cytokines that stimulate the acute phase reaction.
The primary role of TNF is in the regulation of immune cells.
TNF is able to induce apoptotic cell death, to induce inflammation, and to inhibit tumorigenesis and viral replication.
Dysregulation of TNF production has been implicated in a variety of human diseases, as well as cancer.
Recombinant TNF is used as an immunostimulant under the INN tasonermin.
Ceftaroline fosamil (INN) (pron.: /sɛfˈtærɵliːn/), brand name Teflaro, is an advanced-generatio cephalosporin antibiotic.
It is active against methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA) and Gram-positive bacteria.
It retains the activity of later-generation cephalosporins having broad-spectrum activity against Gram-negative bacteria.
It is currently being investigated for community-acquired pneumonia and complicated skin and skin structure infection.
Ceftaroline is being developed by Forest Laboratories, under a license from Takeda.
Ceftaroline has received approval from the U.S. Food and Drug Administration for the treatment of community-acquired bacterial pneumonia and acute bacterial skin infections on October 29, 2010.
In vitro studies show that it has a similar spectrum to ceftobiprole, the only other fifth-generation cephalosporin to date, although no head to head clinical trials have been conducted.
Currently, ceftaroline and ceftobiprole are on an unnamed subclass of cephalosporins by the Clinical and Laboratory Standards Institute (CLSI).
B-cell lymphoma 6 protein is a protein that in humans is encoded by the BCL6 gene.
The presence of BCL6 can be demonstrated in tissue sections using immunohistochemistry.
It is exclusively present in the B-cells of both healthy and neoplastic germinal centres.
It therefore demonstrates both reactive hyperplasia in lymph nodes and a range of lymphomas derived from follicular B-cells, such as Burkitt's lymphoma, follicular lymphoma, and the nodular lymphocyte predominant subtype of Hodgkin's disease.
It is often used together with antibodies to Bcl-2 antigen to distinguish neoplastic follicles from those found in benign hyperplasia, for which the latter is negative
Efavirenz is a Nonnucleoside Reverse Transcriptase Inhibitor (Non-NRTI) antiretroviral drug used in the treatment of HIV.
Drug resistance reports assist with treatment decisions.
A cyclooxygenase inhibiting, non-steroidal anti-inflammatory agent (NSAID) that is well established in treating rheumatoid arthritis and osteoarthritis and used for musculoskeletal disorders, dysmenorrhea, and postoperative pain.
Its long half-life enables it to be administered once daily.
The PDGFRB gene (platelet-derived growth factor receptor, beta polypeptide) is located on chromosome 5q33.1.
This gene encodes a cell surface tyrosine kinase receptor for members of the platelet-derived growth factor family.
These growth factors are mitogens for cells of mesenchymal origin.
The identity of the growth factor bound to a receptor monomer determines whether the functional receptor is a homodimer or a heterodimer, composed of both platelet-derived growth factor receptor alpha and beta polypeptides.
This gene is flanked on chromosome 5 by the genes for granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor and macrophage-colony stimulating factor receptor; all three genes may be implicated in the 5-q syndrome.
A translocation between chromosomes 5 and 12, that fuses this gene to that of the translocation, ETV6, leukemia gene, results in chronic myeloproliferative disorder with eosinophilia.
The enzyme catalyzing the transfer of 2-deoxy-D-ribose from thymidine to orthophosphate, thereby liberating thymidine. .
A genus of ameboid protozoa.
Characteristics include a vesicular nucleus and the formation of several lodopodia, one of which is dominant at a given time.
Reproduction occurs asexually by binary fission.
Citrulline is an alpha amino acid produced from ornithine and carbamoyl phosphate during the urea cycle.
Increases occur in type I and type II citrullinemia.
Mutations in the Arginosuccinate synthetase (ASS) gene cause type I citrullinemia.
Mutations in the SLC25A13 gene cause type II citrullinemia.
(Information from Wikipedia 9/14/06).
The groEL gene segment, which encodes the 60-kDa heat shock protein (HSP60), is present at a frequency of 1 copy per organism in Anaplasma and Ehrlichia pathogenic species, including Anaplasma phagocytophilum, Ehrlichiosis chaffeensis, Ehrlichia muris eauclairensis, and Ehrlichia ewingii/canis.
These species are associated with ehrlichiosis, a bacterial disease transmitted by ticks that causes flu-like symptoms.
The groEL gene target is used to simultaneously detect and differentiate between these Anaplasma and Ehrlichia species for the diagnosis of ehrlichiosis, particularly during the early phase of infection.
Diamine oxidase is an enzyme that metabolizes histamine.
If there is a deficiency of the enzyme, histamine levels will elevate causing gastrointestinal problems, migranes and other allergy-like symptoms.
Intravascular fluid intake refers to fluids administered within the vascular system.
This is commonly occurs within a vein (intravenously).
There are several types of intravascular fluid that can be administered (eg. liquid food, electrolytes, medications and dyes for radiologic examination).
The temperature sensor number is the identification number of the device that monitors and records the temperature of a clinical specimen during transport.
Human epididymus protein 4 (HE4) is a secretory protein.
HE4 has a size of 20-25 kDa with a 13 KDa (approx.)
Increased levels are found in ovarian cancer, provides increased sensitivity over CA 125 alone.
Walnut is the common name for 20 species of deciduous trees in the Juglans genus (native to south-western Asia, eastern Asia, and the Americas).
Tree nuts and Peanuts are frequent causes of severe IgE-mediated food hypersensitivity and anaphylaxis.
In particular, tree nut allergies are potentially life-threatening, rarely outgrown, and appear to be increasing in prevalence.
Peanut and tree-nut allergic reactions coexist in a third of Peanut-allergic patients, frequently occur on first known exposure, and may be life-threatening.
The frequency of Walnut allergy in children with IgE-mediated food allergy has been reported as 4.2%.
Inosine triphosphate pyrophosphatase (ITPase) hydrolyzes the purine nucleotides inosine triphosphate (ITP), deoxyinosine triphosphate (dITP) as well as 2'-deoxy-N-6-hydroxylaminopurine triposphate (dHAPTP) and xanthosine 5'-triphosphate (XTP) to their respective monophosphate derivatives.
ITPase is encoded by the ITPA gene.
Mutations in the IPTA gene lead to inosine triphosphate pyrophosphatase deficiency (ITPAD), an inherited condition characterized by the abnormal accumulation of inosine triphosphate in erythrocytes.
Enterovirus G (EV-G) is a small, non-enveloped virus with a positive-sense single-stranded RNA genome that belongs to the Picornavirdae family and the Enterovirus genus.
EV-G was formerly known as Porcine enterovirus B, which included the prototype viruses PEV-9 and PEV-10, both of which have been reclassified as EV-G1 and EV-G2, respectively.
There are eleven types of EV-G that have been identified in Asia, Europe, and recently North America.
EV-G infection is usually asymptomatic and has been identified in the feces of asymptomatic pigs in Asia and Europe and wild boars in Hungary.
Testosterone is an androgenic steroid and is the primary male sex hormone.
Approximately half of circulating testosterone is tightly bound to a protein called sex hormone binding globulin (SHBG) and is biologically inactive.
Another fraction is weakly bound to other proteins, such as albumin, and the remainder is unbound, or "free".
Weakly bound and free testosterone together represent bioavailable testosterone.
Both total and free testosterone levels decrease with age.
Low testosterone is associated with many other conditions, including osteoporosis, Alzheimer's disease, obesity, diabetes and ischemic heart disease.
The Mulberries, comprising about 10 species, are monoecious or dioecious trees or shrubs.
The origins of the Mulberry tree (M. alba) are mainly in China, Japan, Thailand and Malaysia.
The tree is now found throughout the world.
Mulberry pollens can induce asthma, allergic rhinitis and allergic conjunctivitis.
Legionella pneumophila, a gram-negative bacillus, most commonly causes acute pneumonia (legionellosis).
Transmission to humans is usually through aerosols of infected water sources such as fountains, misting systems, and drinking water.
Severity of infections due to L. pneumophila range from mild (walking pneumonia) to fatal (multilobar pneumonia).
Antimicrobial therapy usually includes erythromycin, with the addition of rifampin in severe cases.
Initial response to therapy is usually rapid, but full recovery can take weeks to months.
Twenty metabolites of quetiapine have been identified; the 7-hydroxylated metabolite and the N-dealkylated metabolite are pharmacologically active (Goren & Levin, 1998).
Euroglyphus maynei is prevalent in humid geographical areas throughout the world.
These mites thrive in humid human dwellings where there is no liquid water to drink.
E. maynei is the source of at least 47 individual allergens.
E. maynei may commonly induce symptoms of asthma and rhinoconjunctivitis and exacerbate atopic dermatitis in sensitised individuals
Dextrorphan (DXO) is a psychoactive drug of the morphinan chemical class which acts as an antitussive or cough suppressant and dissociative hallucinogen.
It is the dextro-stereoisomer of racemorphan, the levo-half being levorphanol.
Dextrorphan is produced by O-demethylation of dextromethorphan by CYP2D6.
Dextrorphan is an NMDA antagonist and contributes to the abuse liability of dextromethorphan.
The amount of fluid ouput from a drain placed in a musculoskeletal site.
Heparan sulfate is a derived disaccharide that accumulates in lysosomes, extracellular matrix, and body fluids of people with mucopolysaccharidoses (MPSs).
MPSs are rare disorders caused by a deficiency of enzymes that break down glycosaminoglycans (GAGs).
Symptoms of MPS vary due to which storage product accumulates and the level of enzymatic function or concentration that remains.
Symptoms include musculoskeletal, airway, cardiac, and central nervous system disorders.
Treatments include hematopoietic stem cell transplantation for the more critical forms of MPS and intravenous enzyme replacement therapy for the others.
Treatment is most effective when it is initiated before irreversible tissue damage has occurred.
Because MPS is so rare and the symptoms so variable, it is difficult to diagnose in its earliest stages.
A solution to that problem is the development of newborn screening assays that can detect heparan sulfate, though the levels in the dried blood spot samples do not appear to predict the severity of disease.
The pattern of dermatan and heparan sulfate can help distinguish between the different MPSs.
Phosphatidylserine (PS) is a phospholipid nutrient found in fish, green leafy vegetables, soybeans and rice, and is essential for the normal functioning of neuronal cell membranes.
In apoptosis, phosphatidylserine is transferred to the outer leaflet of the plasma membrane.
This is part of the process by which the cell is targeted for self destruction.
PS has been used to slow cognitive decline in early-onset Alzheimer's disease.
The substance is sold as a dietary supplement to people who believe they can benefit from an increased intake.
The dietary supplement was originally processed from cow brains but because of the prion disease scares in the 1990s the process was outlawed.
A soy-based alternative has been implemented.
PS sold now is made from plants instead of animals.
Intrachamber diastolic pressure refers to the pressure inside of one of the heart chambers during diastole, the time period during which that chamber is relaxing and filling with blood.
Native Der p 2 (Siemens allergen A316) is a 15kD protein purified from Dermatophagoides pteronyssinus and is commonly associated with sensitization to house dust mites (HDM).
Der p 1 and Der p 2 account for more than 80% of patients sensitized to HDMs.
Hydrocodone or dihydrocodeinone (marketed as Vicodin, Anexsia, Dicodid, Hycodan, Hycomine, Lorcet, Lortab, Norco, Novahistex, Hydroco, Tussionex, Vicoprofen) is a semi-synthetic opioid derived from two of the naturally occurring opiates, codeine and thebaine.
Hydrocodone is an orally active narcotic analgesic and antitussive.
Sales and production of this drug have increased significantly in recent years, as have diversion and illicit use.
Hydrocodone is commonly available in tablet, capsule and syrup form.
Escitalopram (trade names Lexapro, Cipralex, Seroplex, Lexamil) is an antidepressant of the selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor (SSRI) class with a half life of 27-32 hours.
It is approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for the treatment in adults with major depressive disorder, generalized anxiety disorder, social anxiety disorder, or panic disorder.
Escitalopram is the S-stereoisomer (enantiomer) of the earlier Lundbeck drug citalopram, hence the name escitalopram.
Escitalopram is noted for its high selectivity of serotonin reuptake inhibition and has side effects typical for the SSRI class.
Testing for this drug and its major metabolite, norescitalopram, is performed to monitor drug doses.
Excessive doses of escitalopram usually cause relatively minor untoward effects such as agitation and tachycardia.
However, dyskinesia, hypertonia and clonus may occur in some cases.
Plasma escitalopram concentrations are usually in a range of 20-80 μg/L in therapeutic situations and may reach 80-200 μg/L in the elderly, patients with hepatic dysfunction, those who are poor CYP2C19 metabolizers or following acute overdose.
The branched chain keto-acid dehydrogenase complex (BCKAD) is a multienzyme which catalyzes the oxidative decarboxylation of the alpha-keto acids derived from leucine, isoleucine, and valine.
An enzyme that catalyzes the hydrolysis of ACETYLCHOLINE to CHOLINE and acetate.
In the CNS, this enzyme plays a role in the function of peripheral neuromuscular junctions. .
Scallops, or fan shells, are found in all seas, shallow as well as deep.
Cross-reactivity between crustaceans and mollusks has been demonstrated.
Many common types of seafood have been reported to be involved in allergic diseases, with reactions including urticaria, angioedema, gastrointestinal distress, asthma, rhinitis and anaphylaxis
Immunoglobulin (Ig) light chains consist of 211 to 217 amino acid residues with a molecular weight of approximately 22 kDa.
There are two major types of light chains, kappa and lambda.
Ig light chains and two Ig heavy chains make one immunoglobulin (IgG) molecule.
IgM is a pentamer (made of 5 IgG molecules) .
AO is Swiss for Arbeitsgemeinschaft für Osteosynthesefragen, which translates to "working group for osteosynthesis issues".
The work group developed the AO classification nomenclature which includes primary fracture type, neurologic status and modifiers.
The GAA gene (glucosidase, alpha; acid) is located on chromosome 17q25.2-q25.3.
This gene encodes acid alpha-glucosidase, which is essential for the degradation of glycogen to glucose in lysosomes.
Different forms of acid alpha-glucosidase are obtained by proteolytic processing.
Defects in this gene are the cause of glycogen storage disease II, also known as Pompe's disease, which is an autosomal recessive disorder with a broad clinical spectrum.
Three transcript variants encoding the same protein have been found for this gene.
Ceftolozane is a cephalosporin with powerful activity against Gram-negative bacteria including Pseudomonas aeruginosa and Enterobacteriaceae.
Tazobactam is a beta lactamase inhibitor and penicillin derivative that is effective against beta-lactamase-producing bacteria.
Ceftolozane blocks penicillin binding proteins which disrupts bacterial cell-wall synthesis that leads to bacterial cell death.
When tazobactam is added to ceftolozane, there is a broader spectrum of antimicrobial activity against resistant strains including extended spectrum beta-lactamases (ESBLs).Tazobactam prevents class A beta-lactamases and some class C beta-lactamases from hydrolyzing ceftolozane.
Together, ceftolozane+tazobactam are an effective treatment for complicated urinary tract infections, complicated intra-abdominal infections, hospital-acquired bacterial pneumonia, and ventilator-associated bacterial pneumonia.
Most garden Bougainvilleas are hybrids of Bougainvillea spectabilis (B. Brasiliensis) and B. glabra.
A plant species producing pollen, which may infrequently induce hayfever, asthma and conjunctivitis in sensitised individuals.
Bougainvillea pollen does not appear to be a major component in the atmosphere, as shown by aerobiological monitoring, but may nevertheless uncommonly induce symptoms of asthma, rhinitis and conjunctivitis in sensitised individuals.
Associated with human lymphoid leukemias
A peptide hormone that lowers calcium concentration in the blood.
In humans, it is released by thyroid cells and acts to decrease the formation and absorptive activity of osteoclasts.
Its role in regulating plasma calcium is much greater in children and in certain diseases than in normal adults.
Ficus is a genus of about 850 species of woody trees, shrubs, vines, epiphytes, and hemiepiphyte in the family Moraceae.
Collectively known as fig trees or figs, they are native throughout the tropics with a few species extending into the semi-warm temperate zone
Form CMS-2728-U3 - ESRD Medical Evidence Report, Medicare Entitlement, (Patient Registration) is completed on each incident ESRD patient or each patient re-entering the Medicare program.
Dialysis and transplant facilities must submit this form to the Networks within 45 days from the date a patient is diagnosed with ESRD and either has a transplant or begins a regular course of dialysis.
This form is also mandatory if a patient loses Medicare coverage and re-applying for benefits.
Cytosolic 5'-nucleotidase 1A (cN-1A; also known as Mup44, NT5C1A) antibodies are found in patients with inclusion body myositis (IBM), an autoimmune and degenerative disorder most common in persons 50 years or older.
CN-1A is most abundant in skeletal muscle and is involved in a variety of functions, including DNA repair metabolism.
Studies suggest that anti-cN1A autoimmunity may be a consequence of IBM myonuclear degeneration in patient.
Anti-cN1A autoantibody testing may be useful in distinguishing IBM from polymyositis (PM) and other progressive muscular disorder that present with similar symptoms.
Intestinal alkaline phosphatase (I-ALP) isoenzymes are produced by cells lining the intestines.
The presence of intestinal isoenzymes is common and typically not associated with any pathological condition, especially at normal total AP activity level.
Intestinal isoenzymes may be increased in patients with cirrhosis and in individuals who are blood group type O or B. Other alkaline phosphatase (ALP) isoenzymes are found in the liver, bone, placenta, and kidneys.
Glycolic acid (GA) is a metabolite of ethylene glycol (EG) and is responsible for the primary effects of EG poisoning, which include central nervous system depression, acute renal failure, and elevated anion gap metabolic acidosis.
In cases of suspected EG poisoning, EG screening should be accompanied by a confirmatory method or simultaneous measurement of GA.The preferred methods for confirming EG and GA are chromatographic.
Screening can be performed in serum or urine, and serum levels of both substances should be monitored during treatment in confirmed poisoning cases.
The serum GA level provides more accurate diagnostic and prognostic information than does the EG level.
3-Hydroxyadipate is a normal urinary dicarboxylic acid derived from the omega-oxidation of 3-hydroxy fatty acids and the subsequent beta-oxidation of longer chain 3-hydroxy dicarboxylic acids.
It is found to be elevated in patients with 3-hydroxydicarboxylic aciduria and non-ketotic hypoglycemia .
Precursor of serotonin used as antiepileptic and antidepressant.
Mescaline (3,4,5-trimethoxyphenethylamine) is a hallucinogenic alkaloid of the phenethylamine class.
It occurs naturally in the peyote cactus (Lophophora williamsii), the San Pedro cactus (Echinopsis pachanoi), in the Peruvian Torch cactus (Echinopsis peruviana), and it is also found in a number of other members of the Cactaceae.
It can be extracted from these sources.
Mescaline was first isolated and identified in 1897 by the German Arthur Heffter and first synthesized in 1919 by Ernst Sp¤th.
Bacteria bile solubility testing is performed primarily to differentiate bile soluble Streptococcus pneumoniae from bile insoluble alpha-hemolytic streptococci.
Cells of Streptococcus pneumoniae lyse when treated with a 10% solution of sodium desoxycholate, while other streptococci and grampositive cocci are not bile soluble.
A serotype of SALMONELLA ENTERICA that causes mild PARATYPHOID FEVER in humans.
Apricot is an orange-colored stonefruit of a temperate zone tree ranking 5th in worldwide deciduous fruit production.
The tree resembles the related peach and plum trees.
Apricot may result in allergic reactions, ranging from mild symptoms such as oral allergy syndrome to severe systemic reactions such as anaphylaxis.
Rifampicin or rifampin (USAN) is a bacteriostatic antibiotic drug of the rifamycin group.
It is a semisynthetic compound derived from Streptomyces mediterranei.
Rifampicin may be abbreviated RIF, RMP, RD or R. Rifampicin inhibits bacterial DNA-dependent RNA polymerase.
Because resistance to rifampicin develops quickly during treatment, it should be used in combination with other drugs.
Acetazolamide, sold under the trade name Diamox ®, is a carbonic anhydrase inhibitor that is used to treat glaucoma, epileptic seizures, benign intracranial hypertension, altitude sickness and cystinuria.
For glaucoma sufferers, the drug decreases fluid formation around the eye resulting in lower internal pressure on the eye.
Acetazolamide can only be obtained by prescription and is available as a generic drug.
Gangliosides are present in the cell membrane and are found predominantly in the nervous system.
Ganglioside antibodies against different gangliosides have been associated with different conditions.
The GM2 ganglioside, also called Tay-Sachs ganglioside, is a minor component of adult nervous tissue, and pathological storage of GM2 in neurons leads to motor neuron disease.
Anti-GM2 IgM antibodies have been found in patients with Guillain-Barré syndrome that is associated with CMV infection.
Anti-GM2 antibodies have also been associated with an acute inflammatory neuropathy as a potentially paraneoplastic phenomenon.
The avian heterophil corresponds to the mammalian neutrophil.
The PRF1 gene (perforin 1 (pore forming protein)) is located on chromosome 10q22.
The protein encoded by this gene has structural and functional similarities to complement component 9 (C9).
Like C9, this protein creates transmembrane tubules and is capable of lysing non-specifically a variety of target cells.
This protein is one of the main cytolytic proteins of cytolytic granules, and it is known to be a key effector molecule for T-cell- and natural killer-cell-mediated cytolysis.
Defects in this gene cause familial hemophagocytic lymphohistiocytosis type 2 (HPLH2), a rare and lethal autosomal recessive disorder of early childhood.
Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding the same protein.
Cyclic amide of caproic acid used in manufacture of synthetic fibers of the polyamide type.
Can cause local irritation.
A thioureylene antithyroid agent that inhibits the formation of thyroid hormones by interfering with the incorporation of iodine into tyrosyl residues of thyroglobulin.
This is done by interfering with the oxidation of iodide ion and iodotyrosyl groups through inhibition of the peroxidase enzyme.
Certain protein allergens and chemicals capable of acting as haptens occur at high concentrations in workplace environments.
They represent a significant sensitization risk also for less atopic individuals due to their often high concentration in the air.
Description of the patient's subjective report (symptoms) and clinician's objective evidence (signs) that contribute to the assessment of overall nutrition status.
Symptoms include nausea, fatigue, weight loss and pain.
Signs include physical exam findings, such as out of range vital signs, measured weight and jaundice and laboratory results, such as electrolytes and liver function tests.
A plant species of the family Poaceae.
It is a tall grass grown for its seed, corn, used as food and animal fodder.
Natural protein purified from Phleum pratense.
Phl p 4 is a major allergen which reacts with IgE antibodies of approximately 75% of grass pollen-allergic patients
Act d 1, a 30 kDa protein, also known as actinidin, belonging to the cysteine protease protein family.
Actinidin has physical and chemical properties similar to those of Papain, which can perhaps explain some hypersensitivity reactions.
The MUTYH gene (mutY homolog) is located on chromosome 1p34.1.
This gene encodes a DNA glycosylase involved in oxidative DNA damage repair.
The enzyme excises adenine bases from the DNA backbone at sites where adenine is inappropriately paired with guanine, cytosine, or 8-oxo-7,8-dihydroguanine, a major oxidatively damaged DNA lesion.
The protein is localized to the nucleus and mitochondria.
Mutations in this gene result in heritable predisposition to colon and stomach cancer.
Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
5-Hydroxyhexanoic acid (also known as 5-Hydroxycaproic acid) is a normal dicarboxylic acid degradation product of fatty acids; however, it has been found in patients with non-ketotic dicarboxylic aciduria and one patient on a diet containing excessive amounts of medium-chain triglycerides.
Increased amounts of dicarboxylic acids are excreted in human urine under conditions of medium-chain triglyceride (MCT) feeding, abnormal fatty acid oxidation (FAO) and fasting.
Criteria to distinguish dicarboxylic aciduria originating from MCT feeding and other conditions are needed in urinary organic acid profiling for detecting inborn errors of metabolism.
Medium-chain triglycerides (MCTs) are absorbed and metabolized differently from long-chain triglycerides (LCTs).
MCTs may be useful as a dietary substitute in a variety of clinical disorders.
Urinary excretion of 5-hydroxyhexanoic acid, the (omega-1) hydroxylation product, was increased during MCT feeding as compared with LCT feeding in patients with non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus., ,
A member of the serpin family of proteins.
It inhibits both the tissue-type and urokinase-type plasminogen activators.
Enterococci species are common pathogens in hospital-acquired infections, including urinary tract infections and surgical wound infections.
The sodA gene is conserved across enterococcus species, but the variability of a specific internal sodA sequence can be used to differentiate between enterococcus species.
A particular sodA sequence identifies Enterococcus faecium, and the identification of this sequence in a clinical specimen can be used to identify E faecium as the pathogen responsible for a particular infection.
Likewise, the cpn60 gene is conserved across many bacterial genera, but it also contains an internal sequence with enough variation to distinguish among different enterococcus species.
Identification of a particular cpn60 sequence in a clinical specimen has been used to identify Enterococcus faecalis as a causative infectious organism.
Patients with atopic dermatitis (AD) are frequently colonized with Staphylococcus aureus (S.a) strains that secret exotoxins such as Staphylococcus enterotoxins A, B, C, D, E and Toxic shock syndrome toxin (SEA, SEB, SEC, SED, SEE and TSST), where SEA and SEB seem to be the most important ones involved in the IgE synthesis.
Deoxycholic Acid is a secondary bile acid.
Bile acids are formed in the liver, from cholesterol, stored and concentrated in the gallbladder, and excreted into the intestines in response to food.
Intestinal bacteria converts primary bile acids (Cholic Acid and Chenodeoxycholic Acid) through deconjugation and 7-alpha-hydroxylation, into secondary bile acids.
Elevated concentrations often suggest impaired hepatic clearance due to liver disease.
An increase in secondary bile acids as well as a rise in the ratio of LCA (Lithocholic acid) to DCA (Deoxycholic Acid) has been observed in gallstone sufferers.
The SERPINA1 gene (serpin peptidase inhibitor, clade A (alpha-1 antiproteinase, antitrypsin), member 1) is located on chromosome 14q32.1.
The protein encoded by this gene is secreted and is a serine protease inhibitor whose targets include elastase, plasmin, thrombin, trypsin, chymotrypsin, and plasminogen activator.
Defects in this gene can cause emphysema or liver disease.
Several transcript variants encoding the same protein have been found for this gene.
The cause of most gastrointestinal stromal tumors (GISTs) results from activating mutations in the KIT gene (~85%), primarily those in exons 11 (~70%) and 9 (~10-15%).
Patients with exon 9 mutations have a longer progression free survival and overall survival compared to patients with KIT exon 11 mutations.
Patient responses to KIT inhibitors (e.g. imatinib) varies depending on the mutations found.
Patients with exon 9 mutations are more likely to respond to second line sunitinib than those with other KIT mutations.
Equine Infectious Anemia or Equine Infectious Anaemia (EIA), also known by horsemen as swamp fever, is a horse disease caused by a retrovirus and transmitted by bloodsucking insects.
The virus is endemic in the Americas, parts of Europe, the Middle and Far East, Russia, and South Africa.
The virus is a lentivirus, like human immunodeficiency virus (HIV).
Like HIV, EIA can be transmitted through blood, saliva, milk, and body secretions.
Transmission is primarily through biting flies, such as the horse-fly and deer-fly.
The virus survives up to 4 hours in the carrier.
Contaminated surgical equipment and recycled needles and syringes, and bits can transmit the disease.
Mares can transmit the disease to their foals via the placenta.
The risk of transmitting the disease is greatest when an infected horse is ill, as the blood levels of the virus are then highest.
2-Dechlroethylifosfamide (2-DCE-IF) is a metabolite that results from dealkylation of ifosfamide (IF), a chemotherapeutic agent used to treat solid tumors.
The production of the 2-DCE-IF metabolites leads to equimolar amounts of chloroacetaldehyde, which is thought to be responsible for the nephrotoxic and neurotoxic adverse-effects associated with IF.
Therefore, elevated levels of 2-DCE-IF lead to an increase risk for nephrotoxicity.
Cidofovir is an injectable antiviral medication for the treatment of cytomegalovirus (CMV) retinitis in patients with AIDS.
It suppresses CMV replication by selective inhibition of viral DNA polymerase and therefore prevention of viral replication and transcription.
It is an acyclic nucleoside phosphonate, and is therefore independent of phosphorylation by viral enzymes, in contrast to, for instance, acyclovir.
Routine testing of Factor Xa inhibitor levels is not recommended because they have such a wide therapeutic index.
Testing should only be done in special circumstances.
Fondaparinux (brand name Arixtra) is a synthetic pentasaccharide with selective inhibition of activated factor X (Xa), used for prophylaxis and treatment of deep vein thrombosis (DVT).
Measurement of fondaparinux anti-Xa activity is performed to monitor fondaparinux levels and potential adverse reactions (e.g. anticoagulant-associated severe bleeding).
Fondaparinux is mainly excreted by the kidneys and has a half-life of 15 to 17 hours.
Specimen samples are typically collected 3-4 hours after taking the drug.
Histoplasma capsulatum is a pathogenic fungus that is dimorphic, taking different forms depending on the temperature.
At 25 degrees Celsius, H. capsulatum is in its filamentous or mycelial form, and at 37 degrees Celsius it is in its yeast form.
P and P super little k (Pk) antigens are expressed on almost all red blood cells.
The Pk antigen is the precursor to the globotype glycosphingolipids and consists of a terminal galactose that is added to α 1,4 galactosyltransferase 1.
The P antigen is formed when β 1,3 N-acetylgalactosaminyltransferase
I adds β->3 N-acetylgalactosamine to the terminal galactose of Pk.
The P1 antigen belongs to the neolacto family of glycosphingolipids rather than the globo family to which P and Pk antigens belong.
The P1 or P2 phenotype is expressed on over 99% of donor red cells.
Both P1 and P2 synthesize P and Pk and vary only in the expression of the P1 antigen.
P1 phenotype is (P1+) and P2 phenotype is (P1-).
The two rare null phenotypes are the Pk and little p phenotypes.
The Pk phenotype is missing the P antigen and the little p phenotype is missing both the P and the Pk antigens.
Lycopene is a bright red carotene and carotenoid pigment and phytochemical found in tomatoes and other red fruits & vegetables, such as red carrots, watermelons and papayas (but not strawberries or cherries).
Although lycopene is chemically a carotene, it has no vitamin A activity.
Vimentin is a type III intermediate filament (IF) protein that is expressed in mesenchymal cells.
IF proteins are found in all metazoan cells as well as bacteria.
IF, along with tubulin-based microtubules and actin-based microfilaments, comprise the cytoskeleton.
All IF proteins are expressed in a highly developmentally-regulated fashion; vimentin is the major cytoskeletal component of mesenchymal cells.
Because of this, vimentin is often used as a marker of mesenchymally-derived cells or cells undergoing an epithelial-to-mesenchymal transition (EMT) during both normal development and metastatic progression.
It has been used as a sarcoma tumor marker to identify mesenchyme.
The measurement length is from wrist the to the metacarpalphalangeal joint of the 3rd digit of the hand.
A crystal compound found in patients with gout.
Gout causes inflammation of the tissue and joints.
Cefpodoxime is a third generation beta-lactam antibiotic that belongs to the cephalosporin Family of antibiotics.
Its mode of action is to bind to penicillin binding proteins (PBPs) that are located on the outer membrane of the bacterium.
When cefpodoxime binds to the PBPs, it interferes with the activity of transpeptidase enzymes which prevents the formation of peptidoglycan chains.
Without the peptidoglycan chains, the bacterial septum and cell wall cannot be produced during cell division, which in turn affects the rigidity of the cell wall and leads to cell lysis.
Cefpodoxime is effective against both Gram-positive and Gram-negative bacteria and is used to treat acute tuberculosis, otitis media, pharyngitis, and sinusitis.
The HPS1 gene (Hermansky-Pudlak syndrome 1) is located on chromosome 10q23.1-q23.3.
This gene encodes a protein that may play a role in organelle biogenesis associated with melanosomes, platelet dense granules, and lysosomes.
The encoded protein is a component of three different protein complexes termed biogenesis of lysosome-related organelles complex (BLOC)-3, BLOC4, and BLOC5.
Mutations in this gene are associated with Hermansky-Pudlak syndrome type 1.
Multiple transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms have been identified for this gene; the full-length sequences of some of these have not been determined yet.
Cefuroxime (brand names Ceftin, Zinacef, Supacef) is a broad-spectrum cephalosporin antibiotic resistant to beta-lactamase and used to treat infections caused by gram-negative and gram-positive organisms.
Free cefuroxime is the non-protein bound form of cefuroxime in the blood.
Bound cefuroxime constitutes 33 to 50% of circulating cefuroxime.
Cefuroxime levels are measured for therapeutic drug monitoring and to avoid toxicity.
Blood levels of cefuroxime can be reduced by dialysis.
The TFEB (transcription factor EB) gene is located on chromosome 6 at position p21.1.
Rearrangements involving the TFEB gene has been observed in a subset of renal cell carcinoma.
GD3 is one of the primary gangliosides found outside the central nervous system and is present in the pancreas.
Approximately 50% of patients with newly diagnosed type 1 diabetes have evidence of anti-GD3 autoantibodies; however, anti-GD3 antibodies have not been found in patients with pre-diabetes, which may indicate that anti-GD3 antibodies are not a primary event in the development of diabetes.
The most important allergen in Horse dander appears to be a 27 kDa glycoprotein (the lipocalin Equ c 1).
Carrageenans or carrageenins are a family of linear sulfated polysaccharides which are extracted from red seaweeds.
Gelatinous extracts of the Chondrus crispus seaweed have been used as food additives for hundreds of years.
Carrageenan is a vegetarian and vegan alternative to gelatin.
Metyrosine is only found in individuals that have used or taken this drug.
It is an inhibitor of the enzyme tyrosine 3-monooxygenase, and consequently of the synthesis of catecholamines.
It is used to control the symptoms of excessive sympathetic stimulation in patients with pheochromocytoma.
(Martindale, The Extra Pharmacopoeia, 30th ed)Metyrosine inhibits tyrosine hydroxylase, which catalyzes the first transformation in catecholamine biosynthesis, i.e., the conversion of tyrosine to dihydroxyphenylalanine (DOPA).
Because the first step is also the rate-limiting step, blockade of tyrosine hydroxylase activity results in decreased endogenous levels of catecholamines and their synthesis.
This consequently, depletes the levels of the catecholamines dopamine, adrenaline and noradrenaline in the body,usually measured as decreased urinary excretion of catecholamines and their metabolites.
One main end result of the catecholamine depletion is a decrease in blood presure.
Presence of specific IgE antibodies to Cor a 8 is a risk marker for potential severe reactions in patients with a suspected allergy to hazelnut.
Among hazelnut-allergic individuals in the south of Europe, the predominant sensitization is to the lipid transfer protein Cor a 8.
Ornithobacterium rhinotracheale (ORT) is a respiratory infection that occurs in turkeys and other birds.
Clinical symptoms associated with ORT infections include tracheitis, airsacculitis, sinusitis, pericarditis and exudative pneumonia.
Affected birds show signs of depression and ruffled feathers, reduced feed intake, and decreased egg production.
The severity of the disease is worsened when other respiratory infections coexist.
Staphylococcus lugdunensis is a coagulase-negative, Gram-positive bacterium and a component of normal human skin flora.
However, since the 1990s, this organism has been increasingly implicated in a wide range of severe infections, including osteoarticular infections, bacteremia, foreign body infections, and endocarditis.
This information, taken together with its proven ability to produce a number of virulence factors, places S. lugdunensis in the category of emerging pathogen.
Unlike many fellow coagulase-negative staphylococci, it is susceptible to a wide range of antimicrobials .
Sandfly fever Sicilian virus (SFSV) was identified in Italy in 1943 and belongs to family Phenuiviridae, genus Phlebovirus.
The sandfly fever Sicilian serocomplex comprises the ICTV-classified species Dashli phlebovirus, Toros phlebovirus, and Sicilian phlebovirus.
Transmission occurs through sandflies and the primary vector is Phlebotomus papatasi.
Sandfly fever Naples virus and Sandfly fever Sicilian virus infections share symptoms and clinical similarity.
Symptoms often present as a three day fever with abrupt onset, headache, muscular pain, photophobia, and nausea .
Calcium is the most plentiful mineral in the human body.
Ninety-nine percent is stored in the bones and teeth where it provides structure and functionality.
The remaining 1% of the body's calcium is necessary for vascular contraction and vasodilation, muscle function, nerve transmission, intracellular signaling, and hormonal secretion.
Serum calcium levels do not fluctuate in response to dietary intake.
Bone tissue is the reservoir for calcium and helps to maintain concentrations in the blood, the muscle, and intercellular fluids.
As humans age, the bone is constantly being laid down and reabsorbed.
In growing children, bone formation exceeds that of bone resorption.
In young and middle-aged adults, the bone formation and resorption is about equal.
In older adults, especially in post-menopausal women, bone loss exceeds that of bone formation, which is why their risk for osteoporosis continues to increase as they age.
The ARX gene (aristaless related homeobox) is located on chromosome Xp21.3.
This gene is a homeobox-containing gene expressed during development.
The expressed protein contains two conserved domains, a C-peptide (or aristaless domain) and the prd-like class homeobox domain.
It is a member of the group-II aristaless-related protein family whose members are expressed primarily in the central and/or peripheral nervous system.
This gene is thought to be involved in CNS development.
Mutations in this gene cause X-linked mental retardation and epilepsy.
Haloperidol is a dopamine antagonist of the typical antipsychotic class of medications.
It is a butyrophenone derivative and has pharmacological effects similar to the phenothiazines.
Haloperidol is an older antipsychotic used in the treatment of schizophrenia and acute psychotic states and delirium.
A long-acting decanoate ester is used as an injection given every four weeks to people with schizophrenia or related illnesses who have poor adherence to medication regimens and suffer frequent relapses of illness, or to overcome the drawbacks inherent to its orally administered counterpart that burst dosage increases risk or intensity of side effects.
In some countries, injections of antipsychotics such as haloperidol can be ordered by a court at the request of a psychiatrist.
1-Naphthol, or α-naphthol, is a colorless crystalline solid with the formula C10H7OH.
It is an isomer of 2-naphthol differing by the location of the hydroxyl group on naphthalene.
1-Naphthol is a metabolite of the insecticide carbaryl and naphthalene.
Along with TCPy, it has been shown to decrease testosterone levels in adult men.
Megakaryopoiesis is the process by which bone marrow progenitor cells (hematopoietic stem cells, HSC) develop into mature megakaryocytes (MKs).
MKs then produce platelets, a process called thrombopoesis.
MKs play a role in the pathogenesis of acute megakaryocytic leukaemia and a subset of myeloproliferative neoplasms, including essential thrombocythemia and primary myelofibrosis.
Abnormal megakaryopoiesis and thrombopoiesis can lead to morbidity and mortality from bleeding due to moderate to severe thrombocytopenia.
The commercial PRRS modified live vaccine (Ingelvac(®) PRRS MLV, Boehringer Ingelheim Vetmedica Inc., St. Joseph, Missouri, USA) based on type 2 PRRSV, was first licensed for use in in 1996.
A recent study showed that this vaccination method is still effective after 20 years and testing for the MLV-modified PRRS induced antibody continues to be a relevant form of disease surveillance.
A plant species of the genus SOLANUM, family SOLANACEAE.
The fruit is a large, egg-shaped berry, varying in color from dark purple to red, yellowish, or white.
The leaves are large and ovate.
The flowers are pendant, violet, and two inches across.
Heat-stable enterotoxins are proteins secreted by some bacteria including Escherichia coli, Yersinia enterocolitica, Vibrio cholera and others that cause secretory diarrhea.
These enterotoxins are composed of 17-53 amino acids that share a conserved C-terminal region.
They also have three disulfide bonds that give them heat stability and biological activity.
After a series of reactions, the enterotoxins lead to the phosphorylation of the cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator (CFTR), which cause the production of Cl-, HCO3-, and water secretion, resulting in diarrhea.
Fennel is native to southern Europe (where it has been popular since Mycenean times), and is common there and in Britain, Ethiopia, the Middle East, the Far East, the Caribbean and parts of South America.
It has a broad, bulbous base that is treated like a vegetable.
Common Fennel is the variety from which the oval, greenish-brown Fennel seeds come.
Fennel seed may induce symptoms of food allergy, rhinoconjunctivitis and asthma in sensitised individuals.
Occupational allergic rhinoconjunctivitis and asthma to Fennel seed have been reported.
The RET gene (ret proto-oncogene) is located on chromosome 10q11.2.
This gene, a member of the cadherin superfamily, encodes one of the receptor tyrosine kinases, which are cell-surface molecules that transduce signals for cell growth and differentiation.
This gene plays a crucial role in neural crest development, and it can undergo oncogenic activation in vivo and in vitro by cytogenetic rearrangement.
Mutations in this gene are associated with the disorders multiple endocrine neoplasia, type IIA, multiple endocrine neoplasia, type IIB, Hirschsprung disease, and medullary thyroid carcinoma.
Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
Additional transcript variants have been described but their biological validity has not been confirmed.
The cashew is in the family Anacardiaceae.
Its English name derives from the Portuguese name for the fruit of the cashew tree, caju, which in turn derives from the indigenous Tupi name, acajú.
It is now widely grown in tropical climates for its cashew nuts and cashew apples.
Diffusing capacity (DLCO) is the carbon monoxide uptake from a single inspiration in a standard time (usually 10 sec).
Since air consists of very minute or trace quantities of carbon monoxide (CO), 10 seconds is considered to be the standard time for inhalation, then rapidly blow it out (exhale).
The exhaled gas is tested to determine how much of the tracer gas was absorbed during the breath.
This will pick up diffusion impairments, for instance in pulmonary fibrosis.
This must be corrected for anemia (because rapid CO diffusion is dependent on hemoglobin in RBC's; a low hemoglobin concentration, anemia, will reduce DLCO) and pulmonary hemorrhage (excess RBC's in the interstitium or alveoli can absorb CO and artificially increase the DLCO capacity).
Atmospheric pressure and/or altitude will also affect measured DLCO, and so a correction factor is needed to adjust for standard pressure.
Online calculators are available to correct for hemoglobin levels and altitude and/or pressure where the measurement was taken.
Agaricus is a large and important genus of mushrooms containing both edible and poisonous species, with possibly over 300 members worldwide.
The genus includes the common ("button") mushroom (Agaricus bisporus) and the field mushroom (Agaricus campestris), the dominant cultivated mushrooms of the West.
Members of Agaricus are characterized by having a fleshy cap or pileus, from the underside of which grow a number of radiating plates or gills on which are produced the naked spores.
They are distinguished from other members of their family, Agaricaceae, by their chocolate-brown spores.
Members of Agaricus also have a stem or stipe, which elevates the pileus above the object on which the mushroom grows, or substrate, and a partial veil, which protects the developing gills and later forms a ring or annulus on the stalk.
Sibutramine, usually available as sibutramine hydrochloride monohydrate, is an orally administered agent for the treatment of obesity, as an appetite suppressant.
Azelaic acid (AZA) is a naturally occurring saturated nine-carbon dicarboxylic acid (COOH (CH2)7-COOH).
It possesses a variety of biological actions both in vitro and in vivo.
Interest in the biological activity of AZA arose originally out of studies of skin surface lipids and the pathogenesis of hypochromia in pityriasis versicolor infection.
Later, it was shown that Pityrosporum can oxidize unsaturated fatty acids to C8-C12 dicarboxylic acids that are cornpetitive inhibitors of tyrosinase in vitro.
Azelaic acid was chosen for further investigation and development of a new topical drug for treating hyperpigmentary disorders for the following reasons: it possesses a middle-range of antityrosinase activity, is inexpensive, and more soluble to be incorporated into a base cream than other dicarboxylic acids.
Azelaic acid is another option for the topical treatment of mild to moderate inflammatory acne vulgaris.
It offers effectiveness similar to that of other agents without the systemic side effects of oral antibiotics or the allergic sensitization of topical benzoyl peroxide and with less irritation than tretinoin.
Azelaic acid is less expensive than certain other prescription acne preparations, but it is much more expensive than nonprescription benzoyl peroxide preparations.
Whether it is safe and effective when used in combination with other agents is not known.
Receptor tyrosine-protein kinase erbB-4 is an enzyme that in humans is encoded by the ERBB4 gene.
Mutations in this gene have been associated with cancer.
Other single-nucleotide polymorphisms and a risk haplotype have been linked to schizophrenia.
A schistocyte or schizocyte is a fragmented part of a red blood cell (RBC).
Schistocytes are typically irregularly shaped, jagged, and asymmetrical.
A true schistocyte does not have central pallor.
Several microangiopathic diseases, including disseminated intravascular coagulation and thrombotic microangiopathies, generate fibrin strands that sever RBC as they try to move past a thrombus, creating schistocytes.
Schistocytes are often seen in patients with hemolytic anemia and they frequently result from mechanical heart valve prostheses.
Excessive schistocytes present in blood can be a sign of microangiopathic hemolytic anemia (MAHA) where the most common cause is aortic stenosis.
Prolylhydroxyproline is a dipeptide.
Prolylhydroxyproline is a marker of bone collagen degradation, showing high sensitivity for the diagnosis of osteoporosis.
Prolylhydroxyproline has been suggested as a possible alternative to hydroxyproline determination in bone resorption studies.
Prolylhydroxyproline is one of the iminodipeptides present in the urine of patients with prolidase deficiency.
Prolidase (X-Pro dipeptidase EC 3.4. 13.9) splits iminodipeptides containing C-terminal proline or hydroxyproline (X-Pro or X-Hyp) to X+Pro or X+Hyp.
Prolidase deficiency is a rare autosomal recessive disease characterized by chronic ulcerative dermatitis and mental retardation.
These patients excrete large amounts of iminodipeptides containing C-terminal proline in the urine due to hereditary prolidase deficiency.
Ethoheptazine (trade name Zactane) is an opioid analgesic from the phenazepine family and is related to other drugs such as proheptazine.
Ethoheptazine produces similar effects to other opioids, including analgesia, sedation, dizziness and nausea.
It was sold by itself as Zactane, and is still available as a combination product with acetylsalicylic acid and meprobamate as Equagesic, which is used for the treatment of conditions where both pain and anxiety are present.
Isobutyryl-coenzyme A dehydrogenase deficiency (isobutyrylglycinuria; IBG) is an inherited disorder characterized by inadequate levels of an enzyme that helps break down the amino acid valine.
Signs and symptoms of this disorder may not appear until late infancy or childhood and can include failure to thrive, dilated cardiomyopathy, seizures, anemia, and very low blood levels of carnitine.
This condition may be worsened by periods of fasting or infections that increase the body's demand for energy.
Isobutyrylglycinuria is caused by mutations in the ACAD8 gene and has an autosomal recessive pattern of inheritance.
Chlorinated solvents are a large family of chemical compounds that contain chlorine, for example, carbon tetrachloride (carbon tet), trichloroethylene (TCE), or methylene chloride.
They are used for a wide variety of commercial and industrial purposes, including degreasers, cleaning solutions, paint thinners, pesticides, resins, glues, and a host of other mixing and thinning solutions.
Their chlorine-containing chemical structure helps them: to efficiently dissolve organic materials like fats and greases and to serve as raw materials or intermediates in the production of other chemicals.
Workers can be exposed to chlorinated solvents through the absorption of solvents, through inhalation and skin contact.
Inhalation is the most common form of workplace exposure, because the solvents can readily evaporate.
Skin contact is another important route of exposure in the workplace.
Benzopyrene, C20H12, is a five-ring polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbon whose metabolites are mutagenic and highly carcinogenic.
It belongs to a class of polycyclic aromatic compounds known as benzopyrenes, which consist of a benzene ring fused to a pyrene molecule.
Benzopyrene is a product of incomplete combustion at temperatures between 300 and 600 °C.
Benzopyrene was determined in 1933 to be the component of coal tar responsible for the first recognized occupation-associated cancers, the sooty warts (cancers of the scrotum) suffered by chimney sweeps in 18th century England.
In the 19th century, high incidences of skin cancers were noted among fuel industry workers.
By the early 20th century, the toxicity of benzopyrene was demonstrated when malignant skin tumors were produced in laboratory animals by repeatedly painting them with coal tar.
The PSAP gene (surfactant protein A1) is located on chromosome 10q22.3.
This gene encodes a lung surfactant protein that is a member of a subfamily of C-type lectins called collectins.
The encoded protein binds specific carbohydrate moieties found on lipids and on the surface of microorganisms.
This protein plays an essential role in surfactant homeostasis and in the defense against respiratory pathogens.
Mutations in this gene are associated with idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis.
Alternate splicing results in multiple transcript variants.
Crossreactivity between human insulin and insulin of animal origin has been reported.
A major problem is the cross-reactivity that occurs between anti-insulin antibodies and the various animal and human insulin preparations in patients presenting with allergy to animal insulin.
An alpha- and beta-adrenergic agonist that may also enhance release of norepinephrine.
It has been used in the treatment of several disorders including asthma, heart failure, rhinitis, and urinary incontinence, and for its central nervous system stimulatory effects in the treatment of narcolepsy and depression.
It has become less extensively used with the advent of more selective agonists.
Allergy to walnut is among the most common allergy of all tree nuts.
Allergic reactions to walnut can be severe and sensitivity is seldom outgrown.
The rJug r 3 is a recombinant protein of the walnut and is a lipid transfer protein.
Lipid transfer proteins are often linked to severe allergic reactions.
They are present in many species of plants which can lead to cross-reactivity with other foods including the peach, other nuts, apples or grapes.
Patients who are allergic to Jug r 3 are at risk of reacting to other lipid transfer proteins.
Phosphohistone H3 (PHH3) is a histone protein that is a marker of mitosis.
It has been studied in various cancers, including breast, meningioma, astrocytoma, melanoma, and pancreatic neuroendocrine tumors.
It is used to identify mitotic figures, and has been compared to another marker of mitosis, Ki67.
Borrelia is a genus of bacteria of the spirochete phylum.
It causes borreliosis, a zoonotic, vector-borne disease transmitted primarily by ticks and some by lice, depending on the species.
There are 36 known species of Borrelia.
Some patients can develop heterophile antibodies that can interfere with immunoassay testing.
Among immunometric assays, human chorionic gonadotropin (hCG) assays have been found uniquely susceptible to heterophile antibody interference, but other assays can be affected as well.
When present, these heterophilic antibodies are able to bind to animal antibodies used in immunoassays, causing false positive results.
The inclusion of blocking agents can prevent interference in most but not all cases .
The PHOX2B gene (paired-like homeobox 2b) is located on chromosome 4p12.
The DNA-associated protein encoded by this gene is a member of the paired family of homeobox proteins localized to the nucleus.
The protein functions as a transcription factor involved in the development of several major noradrenergic neuron populations and the determination of neurotransmitter phenotype.
The gene product is linked to enhancement of second messenger-mediated activation of the dopamine beta-hydroylase, c-fos promoters and several enhancers, including cyclic amp-response element and serum-response element.
Human bocavirus (HBoV) is a parvovirus that was first identified in 2005 and has been found in a variety of specimen types, including respiratory, stool, blood, and urine.
It primarily causes respiratory symptoms in young children under the age of two.
HBoV, like other paroviruses, is a small, icosahedral, non-enveloped DNA virus.
Four subtypes of HBoV have been identified (HBoV 1-4), with subtypes 1-2 being the most common cause of illness.
Subtype 1 is most often found in respiratory specimens, and types 2-4 in stool specimens.
Transmission and infection typically occur in the winter and spring.
The presence of succinylaminoimidazole carboxamide riboside (SAICAriboside) and succinyladenosine (S-Ado) in body fluids is a hallmarks of adenylosuccinase deficiency.
The a-wave is an electroretinographic measurement of the initial corneal-negative deflection, derived from the cones and rods of the outer photoreceptor layers.
This wave reflects the hyperpolarization of the photoreceptors due to closure of sodium ion channels in the outer-segment membrane.
Absorption of light triggers the rhodopsin to activate transducin, a G-protein, which leads to the activation of cyclic guanosine monophosphate phosphodiesterase (cGMP PDE) and eventually to a reduction in the level of cGMP within the photoreceptor.
Reduction in cGMP leads to closure of the sodium ion channels, which results in a decrease of inwardly directed sodium ions, or hyperpolarization of the cell.
The a-wave amplitude is measured from baseline to the trough of the a-wave.
Recoverin is a calcium-binding photoreceptor protein that has been identified as the target of autoantibodies that results in cancer-associated retinopathy (CAR).
CAR is a paraneoplastic syndrome where autoantibodies against an unknown neoplasm cross-react with retinal photoreceptor antigens and damage them leading to vision loss.
Only 65% of patients with CAR have detectable antiretinal antibodies and antibodies specific to recoverin are found in approximately 10% of those patients.
Most tumors associated with CAR include small-cell lung cancer and gynecological malignancies.
Neoplasms that are less often associated with CAR include bladder, prostate, pancreatic, small bowel, thymus, thyroid and colon.
Recoverin antibodies lead to cancer-associated retinopathy and have been shown to induce apoptotic death to photoreceptor cells.
Acetophenone is the organic compound with the formula C6H5C(O)CH3.
It is the simplest aromatic ketone.
This colorless, viscous liquid is a precursor to useful resins and fragrances.
Heroin, diamorphine (BAN) or diacetylmorphine (INN) is a semi-synthetic opioid.
It is the 3,6-diacetyl derivative of morphine (hence diacetylmorphine) and is synthesised from it by acetylation.
The white crystalline form is commonly the hydrochloride salt, diacetylmorphine hydrochloride.
It has a high addiction potential, and frequent repeated administration causes a fast development of tolerance to it when compared to other substances, although occasional use without symptoms of withdrawal is also possible.
Internationally, Heroin is controlled under Schedules I and IV of the Single Convention on Narcotic Drugs.
It is illegal to manufacture, possess, or sell heroin in the United States ; however, under the name diamorphine, heroin is a legal prescription drug in the United Kingdom.
Popular street names for heroin include chiva, diesel, smack, bag, skag, heron, black tar, horse, junk, jenny, brown, brown sugar, dark, Dope, and H.
Bleeding Time is a screening test for capillary function and platelet function.
Bleeding times are prolonged in aspirin sensitivity, Glazmann's and vonWillebrand's disease.
Reticulated platelets (RPs) are the youngest circulating platelets and have been shown to reflect thrombopoietic activity in humans.
They are identified by their increased RNA content.
An elevated percentage of RPs is diagnostic of increased marrow platelet production, such as in response to idiopathic thrombocytopenic purpura.
A low percentage of RPs is associated with hypoproliferative causes of thrombocytopenia, including chemotherapy or intrinsic marrow aplasia.
In addition to the circulation percentage of RPs by RNAse-based analysis, the RP maturation index (RP-MI), or immature platelet fraction, further refines the sensitivity of RP detection and may be useful to predict platelet count recovery following chemotherapy-induced thrombocytopenia.
One of the CEPHALOSPORINS that has a broad spectrum of activity against both gram-positive and gram-negative microorganisms.
Agrostis stolonifera (Creeping bentgrass, Creeping bent, Fiorin, Spreading bent, Carpet bentgrass, Redtop) is a perennial grass species in the Poaceae family.
It is stoloniferous and may form mats or tufts.
The prostrate stems of this species grow to 1.3-3.3 ft (0.4-1 m) long with 0.8-4in (2-10 cm) long leaf blades and a panicle reaching up to 16in (40 cm) in height.
The posterior-superior angle between the long axis of the mandibular central incisor and the mandibular plane (Gonion to Gnathion)
The only species in the genus Gardnerella previously identified as Haemophilus vaginalis.
This bacterium, also isolated from the female genital tract of healthy women, is implicated in the cause of bacterial vaginosis (vaginosis, bacterial).
It occasionally causes postpartum bacteremia and bacteremia following a transurethral resection of the prostate.
Hemoglobin Q (Hb Q) is defined in terms of a specific band on electrophoresis.
A few variants (example Hb Q India) are named for the place where they were first noted to exist.
Hb Q, a relatively uncommon alpha-chain structural Hb variant, has been reported either in the heterozygous state or interacting with beta-thalassaemia.
Individuals inheriting Hb Q generally are asymptomatic and are diagnosed by chance during population screening or as a part of a family study.
A complex that includes several strains of M. avium.
M. intracellulare is not easily distinguished from M. avium and therefore is included in the complex.
These organisms are most frequently found in pulmonary secretions from persons with a tuberculous-like mycobacteriosis.
Strains of this complex have also been associated with childhood lymphadenitis and AIDS; M. avium alone causes tuberculosis in a variety of birds and other animals, including pigs.
CD58, A membrane protein present on many hemopoietic cells and fibroblasts that acts as a ligand for CD2 and may be involved in T-cell function.
Arnica montana, commonly known as wolf's bane, leopard's bane, mountain tobacco among others, is a flowering plant found in Europe.
It has some toxic traits, but the extent of its danger to humans is not fully known.
Hepatitis C virus NS5 mutations are associated with interferon resistance.
Salmonella is a rod-shaped, motile bacterium, nonmotile (exceptions S. gallinarum and S. pullorum), nonsporeforming and Gram-negative.
There is a widespread occurrence in animals, especially in poultry and swine.
Environmental sources of the organism include water, soil, insects, factory surfaces, kitchen surfaces, animal feces, raw meats, raw poultry, and raw seafoods, to name only a few.
S. typhi and the paratyphoid bacteria are normally caused septicemic and produce typhoid or typhoid-like fever in humans.
Other forms of salmonellosis generally produce milder symptoms.
Pipradrol (Meretran) is a mild central nervous system stimulant that is no longer widely used in most countries due to concerns about its abuse potential, although this is less of a problem than with other stimulants that still are in current use such as methylphenidate.
A slowly hydrolyzed muscarinic agonist with no nicotinic effects.
Bethanechol is generally used to increase smooth muscle tone, as in the GI tract following abdominal surgery or in urinary retention in the absence of obstruction.
It may cause hypotension, cardiac rate changes, and bronchial spasms.
Veterinary Medicine: Several species of the gram-negative spirochete Brachyspira can cause swine dysentery (SD) including B. hyodysenteriae, B. intermedia, B. innocens, B. murdochii, B. aalborgi, B. alvinipulli, B. suanatina, and a provisional species called Brachyspira hampsonii.
B. hyodysenteriae, B. suanatina, and B. hampsonii cause a severe mucohaemorrhagic colitis found mainly in grower and finisher pigs.
Brachyspira that are weakly heamolytic causing a mild colitis include B. murdochii, B. intermedia, B. aalborgi, and B. alvinipulli in pigs, chickens and humans.
Transmission of Brachyspira sp can occur in several ways including: pigs that have subclinical infection; infection from birds or feral animals that act as potential reservoirs; reduced immunity in a herd; routine diagnostic and control measures are not adhered to; and environmental changes such as a change in diet, co-infections and other stresses that increase norepinephrine levels in the gut that can result in the growth and colonization of some species of Brachyspira.
Diagnoses of Brachyspira species are primarily made using polymerase chain reaction (PCR) test and/or immune staining.
Bordetella is a genus of small (0.2 - 0.7 µm), Gram-negative coccobacilli of the phylum proteobacteria.
Bordetella species, with the exception of B. petrii, are obligate aerobes as well as highly fastidious, or difficult to culture.
Three species are human pathogens (B. pertussis, B. parapertussis, B. bronchiseptica); one of these (B. bronchiseptica) is also motile.
B. pertussis and occasionally B. parapertussis cause pertussis or whooping cough in humans, and some B. parapertussis strains can colonise sheep.
B. bronchiseptica rarely infects healthy humans though disease in immunocompromised patients has been reported.
B. bronchiseptica causes several diseases in other mammals, including kennel cough and atrophic rhinitis in dogs and pigs, respectively.
Other members of the genus cause similar diseases in other mammals, and in birds (B. hinzii, B. avium).
Water content of the human body can be divided into several components, including intracellular fluid (ICF, 2/3 of body water) and extracellular fluid (ECF,1/3 of body water).
Extracellular fluid is fluid outside of cells and is further divided into plasma (1/5 of ECF), interstitial fluid (4/5 of ECF), and transcellular fluid (normally ignored in calculations).
Transcelluar fluid is primarily contained in organs, such as the gastrointestinal, cerebrospinal and ocular fluids.
Total body water can be determined using methods such as flowing afterglow mass spectrometry (FA-MS).
Extracellular fluid is measured using tracers, such as 82B2, chloride isotopes, and inulin) that go to the extracelluar space.
Intracellular fluid is estimated by subtracting extracellular fluid from total body water.
It is native to Europe but has been introduced on all continents with temperate zones, and many islands.
Ryegrass has become a highly valued and productive cool-season forage, hay, lawn and erosion-control grass.
It was the first meadow grass cultivated in Europe, and is considered the most important forage grass there.
There is a need to differentiate between Rye grass (Lolium perenne) g5, Cultivated Rye (Secale cereale) g12, Rye the foodstuff (Secale cereale) f5, and Wild Rye grass (Elymus tricoides) g70.
Rye grass pollen is a very common inducer of asthma, allergic rhinitis and allergic conjunctivitis
Collagenases are enzymes that break the peptide bonds in collagen.
They assist in destroying extracellular structures in pathogenesis of bacteria such as Clostridium.
They are an exotoxin (a virulence factor) and help to facilitate the spread of gas gangrene.
They normally target the connective tissue in muscle cells and other body organs.
Collagen, a key component of the animal extracellular matrix, is made through cleavage of pro-collagen by collagenase once it has been secreted from the cell.
This stops large structures from forming inside the cell itself.
Collagenase production can be induced during an immune response, by cytokines that stimulate cells such as fibroblasts and osteoblasts, and cause indirect tissue damage
The SOS1 gene (son of sevenless homolog 1 (Drosophila)) is located on chromosome 2p21.
This gene encodes a protein that is a guanine nucleotide exchange factor for RAS proteins, membrane proteins that bind guanine nucleotides and participate in signal transduction pathways.
GTP binding activates and GTP hydrolysis inactivates RAS proteins.
The product of this gene may regulate RAS proteins by facilitating the exchange of GTP for GDP.
Mutations in this gene are associated with gingival fibromatosis 1 and Noonan syndrome type 4.
Spirillum minus is a species of Spirillum.
Spirillum minus is associated with rat-bite fever.
The bovine variety of the tubercle bacillus.
It is called also Mycobacterium tuberculosis var. bovis.
Protein S is the vitamin K-dependent cofactor of activated protein C. Together with protein C, it inhibits the action of factors VIIIa and Va.
A deficiency in protein S can lead to recurrent venous and arterial thrombosis.
Phentermine, a contraction of "phenyl-tertiary-butylamine", is a psychostimulant drug of the phenethylamine class, with pharmacology similar to amphetamine.
It is used medically as an appetite suppressant.
It is approved as an appetite suppressant to help reduce weight in obese patients when used short-term and combined with exercise, diet, and behavioral modification.
It is typically prescribed for individuals who are at increased medical risk because of their weight and works by helping to release certain chemicals in the brain that control appetite.
Carnitine.free is a primary marker for carnitine uptake defect, propionic acidemia, maternal carnitine uptake defect, carnitine palmitoyltransferase I deficiency and primary lactic acidemia (various types).
It is also a secondary marker for maternal glutaric acidemia type I.
Thiolases, also known as acetyl-Coenzyme A acetyltransferases (ACAT), are enzymes which convert two units of acetyl-CoA to acetoacetyl CoA in the mevalonate pathway.
There are two different types of thiolase: acetoacetyl-CoA thiolase (EC:2.3.1.9) and 3-ketoacyl-CoA thiolase (EC:2.3.1.16).
3-ketoacyl-CoA thiolase (also called thiolase I) has a broad chain-length specificity for its substrates and is involved in degradative pathways such as fatty acid beta-oxidation.
Acetoacetyl-CoA thiolase (also called thiolase II) is specific for the thiolysis of acetoacetyl-CoA and involved in biosynthetic pathways such as poly beta-hydroxybutyric acid synthesis or steroid biogenesis.
Airway resistance is the resistance or limitation to gas flow in the airway.
Airway resistance can be affected by many variables, including airway diameter, lung elasticity, and gas composition.
C5 plays a central role in both the classical and the alternative pathway of COMPLEMENT ACTIVATION.
C5 is cleaved by C5 CONVERTASE into COMPLEMENT C5A and COMPLEMENT C5B.
The smaller fragment C5a is an ANAPHYLATOXIN and mediator of inflammatory process.
The major fragment C5b binds to the membrane initiating the spontaneous assembly of the late complement components, C5-C9, into the MEMBRANE ATTACK COMPLEX.
A diol is a chemical compound containing two hydroxyl groups (-OH groups).
Vicinal diols have hydroxyl groups bonded to atoms next to each other, i. e. bonded to each other.
Examples of vicinal diol compounds are ethylene glycol and propylene glycol.
Geminal diols have hydroxyl groups bonded to the same atom.
When the atom is a carbon atom in an organic compound, the diol section of the molecule is unstable and has a tendency to dehydrate forming a carbonyl group.
For example, carbonic acid (HO-CO-OH) is unstable and has a tendency to convert to carbon dioxide (CO2) and water (H2 O).
Only when formaldehyde (H-CO-H) is dissolved in water is the chemical equilibrium in favor of the geminal diol version of the compound.
Other examples of diols are 1,4-Butanediol and Bisphenol A. Synthesis of diols:Diols can be produced from the oxidation of alkenes, usually with dilute acidic potassium permanganate .
Sedoheptulose is a ketoheptose, a monosaccharide with seven carbon atoms and a ketone functional group.
Increased levels of sedoheptulose is associated with nephropathic cystinosis, an autosomal recessive lysosomal storage disease caused by mutations in the nephropathic cystinosis (CTNS) gene.
Wamelink et al. (2008) found that cystinosis patients with the common 57-kb deletion had increased urinary sedoheptulose and erythritol compared to patients with other CTNS mutations.
There are two different types of dietary fiber -- soluble and insoluble.
Both are important for health, digestion, and preventing diseases.
Soluble fiber attracts water and turns to gel during digestion.
Soluble fiber is found in oat bran, barley, nuts, seeds, beans, lentils, peas, and some fruits and vegetables.
It is also found in psyllium, a common fiber supplement.
Some types of soluble fiber may help lower risk of heart disease.
Etiocholanone is a pyrogen, causing fever mediated by interleukin-1 release.
Elevated levels in urine have been associated with male pattern baldness.
A benzodiazepine derivative used mainly as a hypnotic.
Pentedrone is a stimulant of the cathinone class.
It is categorized as a substance of abuse or designer drug.
Synthetic cathinones cause amphetamine-like effects.
They are mainly used for social purposes but are also used for their stimulant properties.
Effects of synthetic cathinones depend on the individual, the dosage of drug administered and the route of administration but the primary effects which make them attractive are increased alertness, sociability, effectiveness in work, euphoria, intense physical and sensory pleasure and a decreased appetite.
The most common adverse effects are cardiac and neurologic.
Cefcapene is a broad spectrum, oral, third-generation cephalosporin with activity against gram positive and gram negative bacteria.
It may be more potent against methicillin-susceptible Staphylococcus aureus (MSSA) compared to other oral cephalosporin antibiotics.
Mutations in the ACADSB gene cause 2-methylbutyryl-CoA dehydrogenase deficiency, also called 2-methylbutyryl glycinuria or short/branched-chain acyl-CoA dehydrogenase deficiency (SBCADD).
SBCADD is an autosomal recessive metabolic disorder with symptoms such as lethargy, muscle weakness, developmental delay and epilepsy.
Deficiency in the 2-methylbutyryl-CoA dehydrogenase enzyme leads to reduced break down isoleucine and excess amounts of 2-methylbutyrylglycine and related compounds, causing serious health problems.
Mycotoxins are any toxins produced by fungi (molds, yeast, and mushrooms).
Most analyses involve non-mushroom toxin, such as Alflatoxin, Ochratoxin A, patulin, or fusarium, which are contained in crops in various climate zones.
Veterinary Medicine: Ceftiofur is an antibiotic of the cephalosporin type (third generation), licensed for use in veterinary medicine.
It was first described in 1987.
It is marketed by pharmaceutical company Pfizer as Excede.
It is resistant to the antibiotic resistance enzyme beta-lactamase, and has activity against Gram-positive and Gram-negative bacteria.
E. coli strains resistant to ceftiofur have been reported.
The aspartate aminotransferase (AST) to platelet ratio index (APRI) was originally published as a marker of significant fibrosis and cirrhosis in patients with hepatitis C. More recently, it has also been studied in patients with chronic hepatitis B.
The APRI is calculated from two common lab results as follows: x100.
For cirrhosis, a score of greater than 2 is considered positive while patients with a score of less than 1 are considered unlikely to have cirrhosis.
For significant fibrosis, 1.5 is used as the threshold for identifying significant fibrosis, and less than 0.5 rules it out.
Other indirect indicators of liver fibrosis and cirrhosis include the FIB-4, which is based on AST, ALT, platelet count, and patient age, and the Forns index, which uses GGT, cholesterol, platelet count, and patient age.
Xanthine is a product on the pathway of purine degradation and is converted to uric acid by the action of the xanthine oxidase (xanthine dehydrogenase) enzyme.
Some people lack sufficient xanthine oxidase, and thus xanthine cannot be converted to uric acid.
This rare genetic disorder is called xanthinuria results from excessive excretion of xanthine into the urine.
This disorder can result in urolithiasis and sometimes myopathy from xanthine deposition.
Elevated xanthine can also result from allopurinol treatment.
Xanthine is also the core chemical component of a group of alkaloids that are commonly used for their effects as mild stimulants and as bronchodilators, notably in treating the symptoms of asthma.
Their effects, however, are widespread and their therapeutic range is narrow and so they are not the drug of choice in asthma treatment.
Methylated xanthine derivatives include caffeine, theophylline, and theobromine (found mainly in chocolate).
These drugs inhibit phosphodiesterase and antagonise adenoine.
Hydroxybupropion, also known as 6-hydroxybupropion and BW 306U, is the major active metabolite of the antidepressant and smoking cessation drug bupropion.
It is formed from bupropion by the enzyme CYP2B6.
With oral bupropion treatment, hydroxybupropion is present in plasma at area under the curve concentrations that are as many as 16 times greater than those of bupropion itself, demonstrating extensive first-pass metabolism of bupropion into hydroxybupropion in humans.
As such, hydroxybupropion is likely to play a very important role in the effects of oral bupropion, which could be accurately thought of as functioning in large part as a prodrug to hydroxybupropion.
A species of a Gram negative spitochete that belongs to the Borrelia burgdorferi group and causes Lyme disease.
Euroglyphus maynei is prevalent in humid geographical areas throughout the world.
These mites thrive in humid human dwellings where there is no liquid water to drink.
E. maynei has been increasingly recognised as an important source of allergen exposure for patients with House dust mite allergy.
Crotoxyphos is a light straw colored liquid and an organophosphate insecticide that is lethal to insects that ingest or come in contact with it.
It is used on lactating dairy and beef cattle, swine, goats, horses, and sheep to combat flies, lice and ticks.
Like all organophosphates, crotoxyphos is extremely poisonous if inhaled, absorbed through the skin, or ingested.
Symptoms of exposure include weakness, incoordination, muscle twitching, tremor, nausea, abdominal cramps, diarrhea, sweating.
Extreme exposure can lead to blurred or dark vision, confusion, tightness in the chest, wheezing, productive cough, pulmonary edema, incontinence, unconsciousness, and convulsions.
Slowing of the heart rate may result in complete cardiac arrest.
Crotoxyphos is only slightly toxic to birds, fish and beneficial insects.
Crotoxyphos has been used to treat human lice.
Serum paraoxonase/arylesterase 1 (PON1) also known as aromatic esterase 1 or serum aryldialkylphosphatase 1 is an enzyme encoded by the PON1 gene.
The PON1 enzyme is a major anti-atherosclerotic component of high-density lipoprotein (HDL) and may protect against LDL oxidation.
Diminished levels have been linked to heightened systemic oxidative stress and atherosclerosis risk.
The PON1 enzyme also is responsible for hydrolysing organophosphate pesticides and nerve gasses.
PON1 activity is low in infants compared to adults.
HLA-DR is a class II major histocompatibility complex (MHC) molecule that is required for antigen presentation by monocytes and other professional antigen presenting cells.
A decrease in the expression of HLA-DR on the surface of monocytes is correlated with septic complications and found to have predictive value for fatal outcome
The thymol turbidity test indirectly measures globulin concentration by mixing a part blood with 60 parts of a supersaturated thymol solution and measuring the resulting turbidity.
High levels of turbidity are indicative of disorders such as acute viral hepatitis and cirrhosis.
Turbidity value of less than 5 is considered in normal range, 6-12 is considered the "cirrhosis" range, and values of 12-30 are seen in the acute phase of viral hepatitis.
The SRSF2 gene (serine and arginine rich splicing factor 2) is located on chromosome 17q25.1.
The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the serine/arginine (SR)-rich family of pre-mRNA splicing factors, which constitute part of the spliceosome.
Each of these factors contains an RNA recognition motif (RRM) for binding RNA and an RS domain for binding other proteins.
The RS domain is rich in serine and arginine residues and facilitates interaction between different SR splicing factors.
In addition to being critical for mRNA splicing, the SR proteins have also been shown to be involved in mRNA export from the nucleus and in translation.
Two transcript variants encoding the same protein and one non-coding transcript variant have been found for this gene.
In addition, a pseudogene of this gene has been found on chromosome 11.
The PEX7 gene (peroxisomal biogenesis factor 7) is located on chromosome 6q23.3.
This gene encodes the cytosolic receptor for the set of peroxisomal matrix enzymes targeted to the organelle by the peroxisome targeting signal 2 (PTS2).
Defects in this gene cause peroxisome biogenesis disorders (PBDs), which are characterized by multiple defects in peroxisome function.
There are at least 14 complementation groups for PBDs, with more than one phenotype being observed in cases falling into particular complementation groups.
Although the clinical features of PBD patients vary, cells from all PBD patients exhibit a defect in the import of one or more classes of peroxisomal matrix proteins into the organelle.
Defects in this gene have been associated with PBD complementation group 11 (PBD-CG11) disorders, rhizomelic chondrodysplasia punctata type 1 (RCDP1), and Refsum disease (RD).
Porcine respiratory coronavirus (PRCV) is a mutant strain of transmissible gastroenteritis virus causing mild or subclinical respiratory infections in young swine.
Research has shown that the primary cells infected with PRCV are epithelial cells of the bronchioles, type II pneumocytes, and alveolar and septal macrophages.
Potential targets when testing for PRCV RNA include a region of the nucleocapsid protein (N) gene and the spike (S) gene.
Saquinavir is an antiretroviral drug used in HIV therapy.
It falls in the protease inhibitor class.
The AXIN2 gene (axin 2) is located on chromosome 17q24.1.
The Axin-related protein, Axin2, presumably plays an important role in the regulation of the stability of beta-catenin in the Wnt signaling pathway, like its rodent homologs, mouse conductin/rat axil.
In mouse, conductin organizes a multiprotein complex of APC (adenomatous polyposis of the colon), beta-catenin, glycogen synthase kinase 3-beta, and conductin, which leads to the degradation of beta-catenin.
Apparently, the deregulation of beta-catenin is an important event in the genesis of a number of malignancies.
The AXIN2 gene has been mapped to 17q23-q24, a region that shows frequent loss of heterozygosity in breast cancer, neuroblastoma, and other tumors.
Mutations in this gene have been associated with colorectal cancer with defective mismatch repair.
A selective adrenergic beta-1-blocking agent with no stimulatory action.
Its binding to plasma albumin is weaker than alprenolol and it may be useful in angina pectoris, hypertension, or cardiac arrhythmias.
The only North American producer, Monsanto Company, marketed chemical mixtures of PCBs under the trade name Aroclor from 1930 to 1977.
The PCBs mixtures were made up of a variety of individual chlorinated biphenyl components, known as congeners (e.g. 2,2',5-Trichlorobiphenyl).
The chemical mixtures were sold under trade names followed by a 4 digit number.
The first two digits generally refer to the number of carbon atoms in the biphenyl skeleton (for PCBs this is 12), the second two numbers indicate the percentage of chlorine by mass in the mixture.
Thus, Aroclor 1260 has 12 carbon atoms and contains 60% chlorine by mass.
An exception is Aroclor 1016, which also has 12 carbon atoms, but has 42% chlorine by mass.
Different Aroclors were used at different times and for different applications.
In electrical equipment manufacturing in the USA, Aroclor 1260 and Aroclor 1254 were the main mixtures used before 1950, Aroclor 1242 was the main mixture used in the 1950s and 1960s until it was phased out in 1971 and replaced by Aroclor 1016.
Vitamin B12 is a water-soluble vitamin naturally present in some foods, added to others, and available as a dietary supplement and a prescription medication.
Vitamin B12 exists in several forms and contains the mineral cobalt, so compounds with vitamin B12 activity are collectively called "cobalamins".
Methylcobalamin and 5-deoxyadenosylcobalamin are the forms of vitamin B12 that are active in human metabolism.
Vitamin B12 is required for proper red blood cell formation, neurological function, and DNA synthesis.
Vitamin B12, bound to protein in food, is released by the activity of hydrochloric acid and gastric protease in the stomach.
Pernicious anemia is an autoimmune disease that affects the gastric mucosa and results in gastric atrophy.
This leads to the destruction of parietal cells, achlorhydria, and failure to produce intrinsic factor, resulting in vitamin B12 malabsorption.
If pernicious anemia is left untreated, it causes vitamin B12 deficiency, leading to megaloblastic anemia and neurologic disorders.
Vitamin B12 is naturally found in animal products, including fish, meat, poultry, eggs, milk, and milk products.
Vitamin B12 is generally not present in plant foods, but fortified breakfast cereals are a source of vitamin B12 with high bioavailability for vegetarians.
Formate (IUPAC name: methanoate) is the anion derived from formic acid.
Its formula is represented in various equivalent ways: CHOO− or HCOO− or HCO2−.
It is the product of deprotonation of formic acid.
It is the simplest carboxylate anion.
A formate (compound) is a salt or ester of formic acid.
Microdeletions are missing pieces of DNA that are beyond the resolution of routine cytogenetic techniques.
Specific microdeletions are diagnostic of several clinical syndromes.
Examples are Cri-du-chat, DiGeorge/Velocardiofacial syndrome, Kallman syndrome, Miller-Dieker syndrome, Prader-Willi syndrome (PWS), Smith-Magenis syndrome, Steroid sulfatase deficiency (x-linked Ichthyosis), Williams syndrome, Wolf-Hirschhorn syndrome, and Y Chromosome microdeletions.
The PKHD1 gene (polycystic kidney and hepatic disease 1 (autosomal recessive)) is located on chromosome 6p12.2.
The protein encoded by this gene is predicted to have a single transmembrane (TM)-spanning domain and multiple copies of an immunoglobulin-like plexin-transcription-factor domain.
Alternative splicing results in two transcript variants encoding different isoforms.
Other alternatively spliced transcripts have been described, but the full length sequences have not been determined.
Several of these transcripts are predicted to encode truncated products which lack the TM and may be secreted.
Mutations in this gene cause autosomal recessive polycystic kidney disease, also known as polycystic kidney and hepatic disease-1.
MART-1 / Melan-A is a protein antigen found on melanocytes.
Antibodies against the antigen are used in the medical specialty of anatomic pathology in order to recognize cells of melanocytic differentiation, useful for the diagnosis of a melanoma.
The same name is also used to refer to the gene which codes for the antigen.
The MART-1 / Melan-A antigen is specific for the melanocyte lineage, found in normal skin, the retina, and melanocytes, but not in other normal tissues.
It is thus useful as a marker for melanocytic tumors (melanomas) with the caveat that it is normally found in benign nevi as well.
The BCL2 gene (B-cell CLL/lymphoma 2) is located on chromosome 18q21.3.
This gene encodes an integral outer mitochondrial membrane protein that blocks the apoptotic death of some cells such as lymphocytes.
Constitutive expression of BCL2, such as in the case of translocation of BCL2 to Ig heavy chain locus, is thought to be the cause of follicular lymphoma.
Two transcript variants, produced by alternate splicing, differ in their C-terminal ends.
Aminobenzoic acid (a benzoic acid with an amino group) can refer to:para-Aminobenzoic acid (p-aminobenzoic acid), 3-Aminobenzoic acid (m-aminobenzoic acid), or Anthranilic acid (2-aminobenzoic acid, o-aminobenzoic acid)
A collective name for a group of closely related lipids that contain substitutions on the 2H-1-benzopyran-6-ol nucleus and a long hydrocarbon chain of isoprenoid units.
They are antioxidants by virtue of the phenolic hydrogen.
Tocopherols react with the most reactive form of oxygen and protect unsaturated fatty acids from oxidation.
Interferon-gamma (IFN-γ) is a dimerized soluble cytokine that is the only member of the type II class of interferons.
This interferon was originally called macrophage-activating factor, a term now used to describe a larger family of proteins to which IFN-γ belongs
Acetylcysteine, also known as N-acetylcysteine (NAC), is commonly used to treat disorders including, but not limited to, paracetamol intoxication, acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS), bronchitis, and psychiatric disorders.
NAC also serves as a mucolytic agent in patients with cystic fibrosis (CF) or chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD).
The CSF3R (colony stimulating factor 3 receptor) gene is located on chromosome 1 at 1p34.3.
The protein encoded by this gene is the receptor for colony stimulating factor 3, a cytokine that controls the production, differentiation, and function of granulocytes.
The encoded protein, which is a member of the family of cytokine receptors, may also function in some cell surface adhesion or recognition processes.
Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been described.
Mutations in this gene are a cause of Kostmann syndrome, also known as severe congenital neutropenia.
Cyclin-dependent kinase 4 (CDK4) is encoded by the CDK4 gene and plays a role in regulating the cell cycle during the transition between G1 and S phases.
Mutations in the CDK4 gene are associated with cutaneous malignant melanoma 3. CDK4 inhibitors, including palbociclib, ribociclib, and abemaciclib, are used to treat patients with HR+/HER2− advanced breast cancer.
A mercurial compound that has been used as a diuretic but is now superseded by more potent and less toxic drugs.
The radiolabeled form has been used as a diagnostic and research tool.
A naturally radioactive element of the actinide metals series.
It has the atomic symbol Pu, atomic number 94, and atomic weight 242.
Plutonium is used as a nuclear fuel, to produce radioisotopes for research, in radionuclide batteries for pacemakers, and as the agent of fission in nuclear weapons.
The type of heater used to supply heat to an infant incubator or open warmer.
Eicosapentaenoate (EPA) is a long chain omega-3 fatty acid that is present throughout the body including in cell membranes.
EPA is found in fatty fish including salmon, tuna, mackerel, sardines, shellfish, and herring.
EPA can be biosynthesized from alpha-linolenic acid (ALA), but it is much more efficient to increase levels by including EPA-rich sources in one's diet.
EPA has anti-inflammatory properties that are vital to fetal development and the process of healthy aging.
Its anti-inflammatory effects are due to reduced gene expression of genes involved in inflammatory and atherogenesis-related pathways, thereby lowering the risk of cardiovascular disease.
EPA has also been found to increase platelet stability, decrease endothelial activation, and improve vascular permeability.
Taking EPA supplements leads to an increased amount of EPA in the plaque of carotid arteries which may decrease inflammation and increase plaque stability.
Many other studies have been run that show acorrelation between higher plasma levels of EPA and reduced symptoms of disease, some of which include Alzheimer's disease, depression, rheumatoid arthritis, and Raynaud Syndrome.
Burkholderia mallei is a gram-negative bipolar aerobic bacterium, a Burkholderia-genus human and animal pathogen causing Glanders; the Latin name of this disease (malleus) gave name to the causative agent species.
It is closely related to B. pseudomalle....
Human infection with B. mallei is rare, although it occasionally occurs among lab workers dealing with the bacteria or those who are frequently near infected animals.
The bacteria usually infect a person through their eyes, nose, mouth, or cuts in the skin.
Once a person is infected with the bacteria, they develop a fever and rigors.
Eventually they will get pneumonia, pustules, and abscesses, which will prove fatal within a week to ten days if left untreated by antibiotics.
Antibodies to Coccidioides F antigen appear within a month of infection, and remain detectable for up to a year thereafter.
This assay determines viral phenotype and genotype resistance to four classes of commonly prescribed antiretroviral drugs: nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors (NRTI), nonnucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors (NNRTI), protease inhibitors (PI) and integrase inhibitors (INI).
LITTLE refers to a name, not lower case (Stan Huff)
Fenugreek (Trigonella foenum-graecum) is a plant in the family Fabaceae.
Fenugreek is used both as an herb (the leaves) and as a spice (the seed).
It is cultivated worldwide as a semi-arid crop.
It is frequently used in curry.
Famciclovir is indicated for the treatment of herpes zoster (shingles),treatment of herpes simplex virus 2 (genital herpes) ,herpes labialis (cold sores) in immunocompetent patients and for the suppression of recurring episodes of herpes simplex virus 2.
It is also indicated for treatment of recurrent episodes of herpes simplex in HIV patients.
Acinetobacter baumannii is an aerobic, gram negative bacterium and part of the Acinetobacter calcoaceticus-baumannii (ACB) complex.
It is a frequent cause of both community and health care-associated infections, including bacteremia, pneumonia, meningitis, urinary tract infections, and wound infections, because of its ability to survive in a wide range of environmental conditions and the extent of its multidrug-resistance.
A. baumannii is considered to be among the most difficult antimicrobial-resistant gram-negative bacilli to control and treat.
Gamma Amino Butyric Acid (GABA) is a minor amino acid important in neuroendocrine metabolism.
GABA is one of the two main inhibitory neurotransmitters, the other is Glycine.
Glutamic acid is the main precursor of GABA.
o,p'- Dichlorodiphenyldichloroethylene (DDE) is an organochlorine and one of the enantiomeric forms of DDE.
It is a degradation product of Dichlorodiphenyltrichloroethane (DDT) that interferes with estrogen and progesterone receptors.
o,p'- DDE is under investigation as a possible treatment for metastatic adrenal carcinoma.
o,p'- DDE is thought to reduce the fecundity and fertility of fish.
Required in very small amounts, trace elements such as iron, iodine, fluoride, copper, zinc, chromium, selenium, manganese and molybdenum are essential for maintaining health.
Trace elements are usually defined as minerals that are required in amounts between 1 to 100 mg/day by adults or make up less than 0.01 percent of total body weight.
Also referred to as microminerals or inorganic micronutrients, trace elements are part of enzymes, hormones and cells in the body.
Insufficient intake of trace minerals can cause symptoms of nutritional deficiency.
However, an individual's needs for these trace elements are easily met by eating a variety of foods from the different food groups.
Beta-catenin (or β-catenin) is a protein that in humans is encoded by the CTNNB1 gene.
In Drosophila, the homologous protein is called armadillo.
β-catenin is a subunit of the cadherin protein complex and has been implicated as an integral component in the Wnt signaling pathway.
An increase in β-catenin production has been noted in those people who have basal cell carcinoma and leads to the increase in proliferation of related tumors
The Staphylococcus aureus capsular polysaccharide enzyme (cpe) gene identifies the presence of Staph aureus (SA) regardless of antibiotic resistance.
The SCCmec cassette-orfX junction (also called the SCCmec cassette right extremity junction region) is a nucleic acid target that specifically identifies methicillin-resistant SA (MRSA).
These two tests can be used together to distinguish the presence of SA from MRSA.
Hemoglobin Lepore syndrome or Hb Lepore syndrome (Hb Lepore) is typically an asymptomatic hemoglobinopathy, which is caused by an autosomal recessive genetic mutation.
The Hb Lepore variant, consisting of two normal alpha globin chains (HBA) and two deltabeta globin fusion chains which occurs due to a "crossover" between the delta (HBD) and beta globin (HBB) gene loci during meiosis.
The homozygous state for Hb Lepore is rare.
Patients of Balkan descent tend to have the most severe presentation of symptoms including severe anemia during the first five years of life.
They also presented with significant splenomegaly, hepatomegaly, and skeletal abnormalities identical to those of homozygous beta-thalassemia.
The amount of Hb Lepore in the patients blood ranged from 8 to 30 %, the remainder being fetal hemoglobin (Hb F) which is present in minute quantities (typically<1 percent) in the red blood cells of adults.
Known as F- cells they are present in a small proportion of overall RBCs.
Heterozygous Hb Lepore is similar to beta-thalassemia major, however the clinical course is variable.
Patients with this condition typically present with severe anemia during the first two years of life.
The heterozygote form is mildly anemic (Hb 11-13 g/dl) but presents with a significant hypochromia (deficiency of hemoglobin in the red blood cells) and microcytosis.
The SOD1 gene (superoxide dismutase 1, soluble) is located on chromosome 21q22.11.
The protein encoded by this gene binds copper and zinc ions and is one of two isozymes responsible for destroying free superoxide radicals in the body.
The encoded isozyme is a soluble cytoplasmic protein, acting as a homodimer to convert naturally-occuring but harmful superoxide radicals to molecular oxygen and hydrogen peroxide.
The other isozyme is a mitochondrial protein.
Mutations in this gene have been implicated as causes of familial amyotrophic lateral sclerosis.
Rare transcript variants have been reported for this gene.
Biomarker produced by mesothelial cells that can be elevated in patients with mesothelioma.
Cardiac output is the volume of blood pumped by the heart in one minute and is expressed as a volume rate (L/min).
This is in contrast to stroke volume, which is the volume of blood pumped by the heart during one beat.
The cardiac output index is the cardiac output normalized for body surface area and is expressed as a volume rate per area (L/min/m2).
Cumene is the common name for isopropylbenzene, an organic compound that is an aromatic hydrocarbon.
It is a constituent of crude oil and refined fuels.
It is a flammable colorless liquid that has a boiling point of 152 °C.
Nearly all the cumene that is produced as a pure compound on an industrial scale is converted to cumene hydroperoxide, which is an intermediate in the synthesis of other industrially important chemicals such as phenol and acetone.
Western ragweed is found across most of North America, including northern Mexico.
Its range is extensive but its incidence is only significant in the Great Plains and Great Basin in the US.
It is also common in Australia and Mauritania.
Western ragweed Code: w2 Latin name: Ambrosia psilostachya Source material: Pollen Family: Asteraceae (Compositae) Common names: Western ragweed, Perennial ragweed Allergen Exposure Geographical distribution Western ragweed is found across most of North America, including northern Mexico.
Its range is extensive but its incidence is only significant in the Great Plains and Great Basin in the US.
It is also common in Australia and Mauritania.
Western ragweed is an erect, coarse herbaceous perennial with a creeping rootstock.
The leaves are soft, green and opposite or alternate.
The leaves are deeply pinnately lobed, hairy, and with irregularly toothed margins.
Its foliage is similar to that of False ragweed, but its burs are shaped like those of Giant ragweed.
Unlike Ragweed and Giant ragweed, Western ragweed can reproduce vegetatively from creeping roots (rhizomes), which often gives it a straight-line pattern across lawns and waste areas.
Western ragweed flowers from July to November.
It is wind-pollinated, releasing millions of pollen grains into the air.
However, the presence of the pollen in honey indicates some insect pollination.
The plant is monoecious (male and female organs are separate, but occur on the same plant), with the staminate (pollen-producing) heads at the leafless tips of the branches, and the single-flowered pistillate (seed-producing) heads clustered lower down.
The fruits are small burs, with the involucre, sometimes slightly spiny or beaked, enclosing the fruit.
Western ragweed is not as large or as abundant as the Ragweed of the more eastern parts of the continent, and is therefore less of an allergy problem.
Environment Western ragweed occurs on plains, dry fields, meadows and prairies, but also along roadsides and in waste places.
It spreads rapidly and becomes a pest, especially when it invades cultivated lands and pastures.
If dairy cows eat it, their milk becomes bitter.
Unexpected exposure The leaves of the plant are used in herbal medications.
A tea made from the roots is used as a herbal remedy.
The pollen is harvested commercially and manufactured into homeopathic preparations for the treatment of allergies to the plant.
Allergens The following allergen have been characterised: Amb p 5 has been characterised (1-3).
Ragweed pollen contains a profilin, though this allergen has not been characterised (4-5).
Potential cross-reactivity With the use of a serum pool from patients sensitive to Short ragweed, the cross-reactivity of IgE antibodies to six Ragweeds was studied through the radioallergosorbent test.
Extracts were analysed for their inhibitory activities, with solid-phase allergens prepared from all of the Ragweed pollens.
Also, samples of serum were absorbed with the various solid-phase allergens and the reactivity of the remaining IgE antibodies was determined.
Two patterns of reactivity were observed.
Short, Giant, Western, and False ragweeds displayed comparable reactivity in both inhibition and absorption experiments.
Slender and Southern ragweed were considerably less active, indicating that they lacked allergenic groupings possessed by the other species.
These same patterns of cross-reactivity were found using Ragweed pollens from four commercial sources (6).
Further cross-reactivity among the various Ragweeds can be inferred due to the high cross-reactivity among various other members of the genus Ambrosia and of the family Asteraceae.
For example, cross-reactivity among Chamomile tea extract, pollen of Matricaria chamomilla, A. vulgaris (Mugwort), and A. trifida (Giant ragweed) was demonstrated by an ELISA-inhibition study (7).
Further evidence confirming cross-reactivity among members of the Ragweed genus was obtained in a study using a fluorescent allergosorbent test, in which similar antigenic determinants were found among Short and Giant ragweed, Cocklebur, Lamb's quarters, Rough pigweed, Marshelder, and Goldenrod.
Cocklebur and Giant ragweed were highly potent in their ability to competitively bind to Short ragweed IgE.
The other pollens demonstrated lower potency of cross-reacting antigens (8).
Also, a water-insoluble material, extracted from Short ragweed and False ragweed pollen, contained at least five proteins.
Two (RFA2 and RFB2) were isolated and shown to possess antigenicity as well as allergenicity.
Immunodiffusion tests of RFB2, isolated from False ragweed and Short ragweed, showed immunological identity (9).
Considering the close cross-reactivity described above, the following further possibilities should be considered.
Mugwort, Ragweed, and Timothy grass pollen share IgE epitopes with Latex glycoprotein allergens.
The presence of common epitopes might in part explain clinical symptoms on contact with Latex in patients allergic to pollen.
In this study, any previously known panallergen was not detected (10).
An association between Ragweed pollinosis and hypersensitivity to Cucurbitaceae vegetables (e.g., Watermelon, Cantaloupe, Honeydew Melon, Zucchini, and Cucumber) and Banana has been reported.
Up to now three allergens have been identified as candidates for causing this cross-reactivity: profilin, Bet v 1, and a 60-69 kDa allergen (11).
Further evidence for cross-reactivity between Cucurbitaceae and Ragweed was found in a study that reported that of the sera of 192 allergic patients, 63% contained anti-Ragweed IgE, and among these patients, 28% to 50% had sera containing IgE specific for any single gourd family member.
The extracts of Watermelon and Ragweed inhibited each other in a dose-dependent manner (12).
Ragweed profilin can be expected to result in cross-reactivity between this plant and other plants containing profilin.
This has been demonstrated between Ragweed and Persimmon (5).
In a second study, 35 of 36 patients' sera containing IgE to Ragweed profilin reacted with profilin from Latex, indicating structural homologies between profilin from Latex and Ragweed.
Because profilin is also present in Banana extract, it is likely to be involved in cross-sensitivity between Banana and Latex (4).
In addition to profilin, Mugwort and Ragweed pollen contain a number of other cross-reactive allergens, among them the major Mugwort allergen Art v 1.
These cross-reactive IgE antibodies could result in clinically significant allergic reactions (13).
Evidence of further cross-reactivity between Mugwort and other members of the Asteraceae family (of which Ragweed is a member) consists in the high degree of in vivo cross-reactivity between Matricaria chamomilla (Camomile) and Mugwort (14).
Cross-reactivity between Sunflower and other Asteraceae pollens (Mugwort, Marguerite, Dandelion, Goldenrod, and Short ragweed) has also been demonstrated by RAST and immunoblotting inhibition experiments.
Mugwort pollen exhibited the greatest degree of cross-reactivity with Sunflower pollen, whereas at the other end of the spectrum, Short ragweed showed fewer cross-reactive epitopes (15).
Celery cross-reacting with Ragweed has also been reported, but a panallergen was not identified in these studies (16-17).
Binding to IgE from Ginkgo pollen proteins (Ginkgo biloba L.) was shown to be almost completely inhibited by Oak, Ryegrass, Mugwort and Ragweed, but only partially by Japanese Hop and rBet v 2 from Birch tree pollen (18).
A panallergen may be indicated but was not isolated.
Sera from subjects allergic to White Cypress Pine, Italian cypress, Ryegrass or Birch pollen were shown to have IgE antibodies that reacted with pollens from these four species and from Cocksfoot, Couch grass, Lamb's quarters, Wall pellitory, Olive, Plantain and Ragweed.
The authors concluded that the presence of pollen-reactive IgE antibodies may not necessarily be a true reflection of sensitising pollen species (19).
The Japanese Cypress tree pollen allergen, Cha o 1, has a 46 to 49% similarly to the major allergens of Short ragweed, Amb a 1 and Amb a 2 (20).
A panallergen has been identified in Birch pollen, Ragweed pollen, Timothy grass pollen, Celery, Carrot, Apple, Peanut, Paprika, Anise, Fennel, Coriander and Cumin.
EAST inhibition and immunoblot inhibition demonstrated that cross-reactions between Mango fruits, Mugwort pollen, Birch pollen, Celery, and Carrot are based on allergens related to Bet v 1 and Art v 1, the major allergens of Birch and Mugwort pollen, respectively (21).
Pollen of Artemisia annua is considered to be one of the most important allergens in autumnal hay fever in China, just as Ragweed is in North America.
Extracts of pollen-free Artemisia annua components were found to contain similar allergens to those of Ragweed pollen.
In 52 subjects sensitive to Artemisia pollen, 92.3% were shown on skin prick testing to have IgE antibodies to this allergen, 100% gave positive responses in intradermal tests, 66.7% gave positive responses in intranasal challenges, and 59.3% gave positive responses in bronchial provocation tests (22).
Ragweed pollen appears to also be cross-reactive with pollen from Yellow dock (Rumex crispus).
When monoclonal antibodies with different specificity were applied against the major allergenic components of Ragweed pollen, the monoclonal antibodies reacted with antigens of Yellow dock pollen.
In a preliminary study, sera of 2 patients containing IgE antibodies to Ragweed pollen antigens also reacted to the 40K component of Yellow dock pollen.
In specific IgE tests on 109 patients with bronchial asthma, 22 had a positive reaction to a crude extract of Ragweed pollen, and 18 also reacted to a crude extract of Yellow dock pollen (23).
Ragweed, and in particular Short ragweed (A. artemisiifolia), is clinically the most important source of seasonal aeroallergens, as it is responsible for both the majority of cases and the most severe cases of allergic rhinitis.
Ragweed pollen also contributes significantly to exacerbation of asthma and allergic conjunctivitis.
Ragweed pollen has also been implicated in eustachian tube dysfunction in patients with allergic rhinitis and contact dermatitis.
The type species of GYROVIRUS, a small, non-enveloped DNA virus originally isolated from contaminated vaccines in Japan.
It causes chicken infectious anemia and may possibly play a key role in hemorrhagic anemia syndrome, anemia dermatitis, and blue wing disease.
Eicosatrienoic acid (20:3w-3), is a rare polyunsaturated fatty acid of the omega-3 series.
In normal humans, it represents less than 0.25% of serum phospholipid fatty acids.
However, it is one of the most active essential fatty acids when assayed for the inhibition of fatty acid elongation/desaturation reactions which convert dietary C-18 fatty acids to C-20 eicosanoid precursors.
CD158a (KIR2DL1), CD158b (KIR2DL3), and CD158e (KIR3DL1) are killer cell inhibitory receptors.
They are involved in the regulation of NK cell mediated cytolytic activity upon interaction with human major histocompatability complex (MHC) antigen C (HLA-C) and HLA-B alleles.
The CD158 a, b and e markers are used to distinguish non-neoplastic/non-clonal natural killer (NK) cell populations from neoplastic/clonal NK cell lymphoproliferative disorders.
CD158b is also a useful marker in the evaluation of kidney transplant rejection.
The Proximal Isovelocity Surface Area (PISA) method is based on convergent flow dynamics and the Continuity Principle.
Proximal to the orifice, flow converges in hemispheric layers of equal velocity.
The flow rate across any of these hemispherical isovelocity surfaces is equal to the area of the surface (which can be calculated from its radius) multiplied by the flow velocity at the surface.
Choosing a PISA velocity equal to the aliasing velocity of the system is an easy way to visualize an isovelocity surface (which will appear as the surface where the Doppler color switches between red and blue) and measure the corresponding PISA radius from the center of the orifice to the surface.
The Continuity Principle states that in the absence of a leak or additional flow into a conduit, the flow rate will be constant along the length of the conduit, whether the conduit is the heart or the regurgitant jet.
So the flow rate through the regurgitant orifice is the same as the flow rate across the PISA surface.
Dividing the flow rate by the peak velocity through the orifice (measured using continuous wave Doppler of the regurgitant jet) provides the effective regurgitant orifice area (EROA).
The BBS1 gene (Bardet-Biedl syndrome 1) is located on chromosome 11q13.
Mutations in this gene have been observed in patients with the major form (type 1) of Bardet-Biedl syndrome.
The encoded protein may play a role in eye, limb, cardiac and reproductive system development.
A type of chromosomal aberration which may result from spontaneous or induced breakage.
ALKYLATING AGENTS and other chemical MUTAGENS, and various types of RADIATION have been found to cause chromosomal breakage.
Breakage can result in translocation; CHROMOSOME INVERSION; or SEQUENCE DELETION.
Chenodeoxycholic Acid is one of two primary bile acids in humans, the other is Cholic Acid.
Both of these bile acids are formed from cholesterol and converted by intestinal bacteria (through deconjugation and 7-alpha-hydroxylation) to the secondary bile acids, deoxycholic acid and lithocholic acid.
Elevated concentrations often suggest impaired hepatic clearance due to liver disease.
Serum Cholic Acid rises more in intrahepatic cholestasis of pregnancy than does Chenodeoxycholic Acid.
A hormone secreted by the adrenal cortex that regulates electrolyte and water balance by increasing the renal retention of sodium and the excretion of potassium.
An anabolic steroid that has been used in the treatment of male hypogonadism, delayed puberty in males, and in the treatment of breast neoplasms in women.
The Escherichia coli (EC) paa gene encodes the porcine attaching-effacing associated (PAA) protein.
PAA helps initiate the early stages of post-weaning diarrhea (PWD).
Porcine enteropathogenic E. coli (PEPEC) is a non-enterotoxigenic strain of E. coli that causes PWD.
PEPEC attaches to intestinal epithelial cells in a characteristic pattern called attaching and effacing (A/E).
To achieve a close attachment to the enterocytes, PEPEC produces an outer membrane protein called intimin that is critical to induce the distinctive A/E lesion.
PAA is the protein that assists in the A/E and lesion production of EC.
Metoprolol is a selective beta1 receptor blocker used in treatment of several diseases of the cardiovascular system.
Metoprolol is used for a number of conditions including: hypertension, angina, acute myocardial infarction, supraventricular tachycardia, ventricular tachycardia, congestive heart failure, and prevention of migraine headaches
Diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL) represents approximately 30%-40% of all non-Hodgkin's lymphomas (NHLs), making it the most common lymphoid tumor.
This group of diseases is defined pathologically by large neoplastic cells with B-cell derivation and clinically by aggressive presentation.
Variants and subtypes have been recognized by World Health Organization (WHO) classifications based on unique morphologic and clinical presentations.
DLBCL can be further subdivided by cell of origin (COO) into germinal center type and non-germinal center (activated B-cell) type, the latter having significantly worse response to certain treatments .
Phoma is frequently found indoors as a contaminator of humid surfaces, in connection with biodeterioration of painted walls, producing colored spots, often pink of purple, several centimeters in diameter.
Anecdotal evidence suggests that Phoma betae may induce symptoms of asthma and hypersensitivity pneumonitis in sensitised individuals.
11-Deoxycortisol, also known as cortexolone or cortodoxone. is an immediate precursor of cortisol and belongs to the class of organic compounds known as 21-hydroxysteroids.
11-Deoxycortisol is a potentially toxic compound.
Accumulation of Cortexolone can happen in a defect known as congenital adrenal hyperplasia, which is due to 11-beta-hydroxylase deficiency, resulting in androgen excess, virilization, and hypertension.
Food allergen mix 18 (fx18, FP18) detects peanut (f13), soybean (f14), and peas (f12) IgE antibodies.
Testing for IgE antibodies may be used to help diagnose an allergic disease or the cause of an anaphylactic episode in a patient.
Enzyme and fluorescent-based assays, which were preceded by the RAST test (Radio-AllergoSorbent Test), are performed to detect allergen-specific IgE in the patient's serum.
Mus domesticus is the most common Mouse that is a commensal of man.
But in the familes Muridae and Cricetidae are many wild species of Mouse, and rarer commensals such as the Doormouse.
Direct or indirect contact with animal allergens frequently causes sensitisation.
Animal allergens are major components of house and animal laboratory dust.
Patient's serum is tested against donor erythrocytes to determine if the recipient has preformed antibodies against any antigens on the donor's cells.
One of the triazole ANTIFUNGAL AGENTS that inhibits cytochrome P-450-dependent enzymes resulting in impairment of ERGOSTEROL synthesis.
It has been used against histoplasmosis, blastomycosis, cryptococcal meningitis & aspergillosis.
HTLV-I is an abbreviation for the human T-cell lymphotropic virus type 1, also called the Adult T-cell lymphoma virus type 1, a virus that has been seriously implicated in several kinds of diseases including HTLV-I-associated myelopathy, Strongyloides stercoralis hyper-infection, and a virus cancer link for leukemia (see adult T-cell leukemia/lymphoma).
Between one in twenty and one in twenty-five infected persons are thought to develop cancer as a result of the virus.
A closely related virus, HTLV-II shares approximately 70% genomic homology (structural similarity) with HTLV-I.
Interleukin-1 alpha (IL-1α) is a protein that in humans is encoded by the IL1A gene.
The protein encoded by this gene is a cytokine of the interleukin-1 family.
Interleukin-1 alpha possesses a wide spectrum of metabolic, physiological, haematopoietic activities, and plays one of the central roles in the regulation of the immune responses.
It binds to the interleukin-1 receptor.
Lipocalin - type Prostaglandin D synthase (Beta - Trace Protein, BTP) catalyzes the conversion of PGH2 to PGD2, a prostaglandin involved in smooth muscle contraction/re­laxation and a potent inhibitor of platelet aggregation.
Involved in a variety of CNS functions, such as sedation, NREM (non rapid eye movement) sleep and PGE2-induced allodynia, and may have an anti-apoptotic role in oligodendrocytes
Wiskott-Aldrich syndrome (WAS) is a rare X-linked recessive disease characterized by eczema, thrombocytopenia (low platelet count), immune deficiency, and bloody diarrhea (secondary to the thrombocytopenia).
It is also sometimes called the eczema-thrombocytopenia-immunodeficiency syndrome in keeping with Aldrich's original description in 1954.
A pomegranate (Punica granatum) is a fruit-bearing deciduous shrub or small tree growing to between five and eight meters tall
Botrytis cinerea is called the grey mold, as it covers the decayed tissues with conidiophores.
B. cinerea is found regularly in the soil, though its proportion of the total fungus population is not high.
It can be parasitic on a wide range of plants, causing blight or rot of leaves, flowers and fruits.
It is called the grey mold, as it covers the decayed tissues with conidiophores, e.g. grey mold of cabbage or lettuce, tomato.
It is especially seen in connection with soft fruits, e.g. strawberries and grapes.
Individuals exposed to B. cinerea may be sensitised to this fungus without experiencing any clinical symptoms, or may experience exacerbation of symptoms of asthma, hayfever or sinusitis, or may develop hypersensitivity pneumonitis (also known as 'winegrower's lung').
IgE- binding components from B. cinerea appear to have both early- and late-phase antigens.
The enzyme DPP-4 also part of the CD26 surface region is associated with immune regulation, signal transduction and apoptosis.
It is a rather indiscriminate enzyme for which at least 62 substrates are known.
Furthermore it appears to work as a suppressor in the development of cancer and tumours.
Dipeptidyl peptidase-4 plays a major role in glucose metabolism.
It is responsible for the degradation of incretins such as GLP-1.
DPP-4 also binds the enzyme adenosine deaminase specifically and with high affinity.
The significance of this interaction has yet to be established.
Euploid male germ cells of an early stage of SPERMATOGENESIS, derived from prespermatogonia.
With the onset of puberty, spermatogonia at the basement membrane of the seminiferous tubule proliferate by mitotic then meiotic divisions and give rise to the haploid SPERMATOCYTES.
Streptococcus constellatus is a species of Streptococcus.
DNA homology studies and 16S rRNA sequence analysis demonstrate S. constellatus is collectively known as the Streptococcus milleri group along with Streptococcus intermedius and Streptococcus anginosus.
Streptococcus constellatus part of the normal flora in the oral cavity, urogenital region, and intestinal tract.
However, it can frequently cause purulent infections in other parts of the body.
The active form of angiotensin.
An octapeptide found in blood, it is synthesized from ANGIOTENSIN I and quickly destroyed.
Angiotensin II causes profound vasoconstriction with a resulting increase in blood pressure.
It differs among species by the amino acid in position 5.
The human form has ISOLEUCINE in this position.
The clinically and experimentally used bovine form has VALINE in position 5.
Medically useful antagonism is obtained with ACE INHIBITORS or with ANGIOTENSIN II TYPE 1 RECEPTOR BLOCKERS.
A phenothiazine used in the treatment of PSYCHOSES.
Its properties and uses are generally similar to those of CHLORPROMAZINE.
Cefprozil, sometimes spelled cefproxil and sold under the brand name Cefzil, is a cephalosporin antibiotic.
It can be used to treat bronchitis, ear infections, skin infections, and other bacterial infections.
It comes as a tablet and as a liquid suspension.
Inhibin-B is a major circulating Inhibin in males and is also present in the female.
It is a potential tumor marker for post-menopausal women diagnostic screen test.
Women aged 35 years or greater, women of any age experiencing unexplained infertility who have a poor response to ovulation induction, women presenting for other tests of ovarian reserve including day 3 FSH and clomiphene challenge test, and women with recurrent pregnancy losses should be tested for day 3 Inhibin B concentrations.
Brucella are gram-negative coccobacilli that commonly infect cows (Brucella abortus), pigs (Brucella suis), goats (Brucella melitensis), and dogs (Brucella canis), along with wild animals such as deer, elk, and moose.
The main pathogenic species of Brucella are Brucella melitensis, Brucella suis and Brucella abortus.
Brucella melitensis is a gram-negative coccobacillus bacterium from the Brucellaceae family.
It mainly affects the reproductive tract of goats and sheep, and in some regions is the major cause of abortion in them.
It can also negatively impact fertility and lactation over time.
B. melitensis has the broadest host range, infecting cattle, camels and dogs, in addition to sheep, goats and humans.
Brucella suis infections in pigs causes chronic inflammatory lesions in the reproductive organs or orchitis and may affect joints and/or other organs.
Similar to B. melitensis, B. suis can cause abortion in pregnant hosts.
Other impacts of the disease are sterility, posterior paralysis and spondylitis.
It is transmitted mainly by ingestion of infected tissues or fluids.
It can cause undulant fever.
B. suis are gram-negative, facultative intracellular coccobacilli and can specifically produce in phagocytic cells.
They are also non-spore-forming, non-capsulated, and non-motile.
Brucella suis are differentiated into five strains.
Strains 1-3 infect boars and pigs.
Strain 2 has been found in wild boars but without signs of infection while they do infect pigs and hares.
Brucella abortus is a species of the genus Brucella.
Natural hosts of B. abortus are cattle and other bovidae.
Abortion and placentitis are common effects on the pregnant animal.
When humans come in contact with an infected animal or animal products that are contaminated with Brucella, brucellosis may result.
Most human infections are occupational.
Over 70 percent of reported cases of brucellosis occur in the meat-processing and livestock industries.
Infection is generally via skin wounds, but the organisms can also be inhaled.
A common route of Brucella infection is eating or drinking infected dairy products that have not been pasteurized.
Human infections are caused most frequently by B. melitensis, B. suis, and B. abortus, while B. canis causes only rare infections.
B. melitensis is the most virulent.
People infected with B. melitensis can suffer serious complications, including infection and inflammation of the bones and joints, and occasionally, the heart and brain.
About 100-200 cases of brucellosis occur every year in the United States.
Incubation period is one to three weeks, and flu like symptoms appear in the infected person, such as fever, sweats, headache, back pain, and weakness.
Severe complications such as CNS infections or infections in the heart lining occur in about 5 percent of cases.
Chronic symptoms like recurrent fever, arthritis, and fatigue may occur up to one year from illness onset.
Information from ARUP laboratories.
Brucellosis plays an important role in the economy and health of many developing countries because of its impact on both livestock and humans.
3-Methyladipic acid is a metabolite of the catabolism of phytanic acid.
Patients with adult Refsums disease (ARD) are unable to detoxify phytanic acid by alpha-oxidation, and so the w-oxidation pathway is the only metabolic pathway available for phytanic acid degradation.
This pathway produces 3-methyladipic acid as the final metabolite, which is excreted in the urine (Wanders et al. 2001).
Activity of the w-oxidation pathway is approximately doubled in ARD patients compared with normal individuals .
Delamanid is the first in a new class of anti-mycobacterial agents called bicyclic nitroimidazoles.
It is indicated for pulmonary multidrug-resistant tuberculosis (MDR-TB) and is effective against Mycobacterium tuberculosis during replication, dormancy, and intracellular stages.
It is primarily metabolized by serum albumin, and does not affect cytochrome P450 metabolic activity.
In clinical trials, delamanid was associated with prolonged QTc on EKG that peaks at 8 weeks following the start of therapy and resolves within 4 weeks after stopping therapy, but which did not result in any cardiac events.
Tests for presence of ermA or ermC gene using genomic methods.
When present, either one of these genes confers resistance to erythromycin and/or clindamycin.
Antimony is a chemical element in the periodic table that has the symbol Sb (Latin:stibium, meaning mark) and atomic number 51.
A metalloid, antimony has four allotropic forms.
The stable form of antimony is a blue-white metal.
Yellow and black antimony are unstable non-metals.
Antimony is used in flame-proofing, paints, ceramics, enamels, a wide variety of alloys, electronics, and rubber.
A chlorinated epoxy compound used as an industrial solvent.
It is a strong skin irritant and carcinogen.
Avilamycin improves weight gain and feed efficiency in broiler chickens, and prevents necrotic enteritis due to Clostridium perfringens in boiler chickens.
Spermatozoa typically have structures called cytoplasmic droplets (CD) that contain a variety of substances including lipids, lipoproteins, and hydrolytic enzymes.
CDs are usually located in the proximal part of the midpiece, are less that 1/3 the size of the sperm head, and are less than two microns in diameter.
Large amounts of cytoplasm in the midpiece is called excess residual cytoplasm (ERC).
The hydrolytic enzymes in the ERC are responsible for the production of reaction oxygen species (ROS), which in turn affect sperm motility, morphology, and fertilization potential.
The World Health Organization considers CDs to be classified as ERCs when they are larger than one third the size of the sperm head.
The POMGNT1 gene (protein O-linked mannose N-acetylglucosaminyltransferase 1 (beta 1,2-)) is located on chromosome 1p34.1.
This gene encodes a type II transmembrane protein that resides in the Golgi apparatus.
It participates in O-mannosyl glycosylation and is specific for alpha linked terminal mannose.
Mutations in this gene may be associated with muscle-eye-brain disease and several congenital muscular dystrophies.
Alternatively spliced transcript variants that encode different protein isoforms have been described.
Caprylic acid is the common name for the eight-carbon saturated fatty acid known by the systematic name octanoic acid.
It is found naturally in coconuts and breast milk.
It is an oily liquid that is minimally soluble in water with a slightly unpleasant rancid-like smell.
A virus is an infectious agent that invades cells and hijacks the enzymes and materials of the host cells in order to replicate.
Viruses are smaller than bacteria and are comprised of RNA or DNA within a protein coat called a capsid.
Since they cannot survive or multiply outside a living cell, they are not considered alive.
Viruses cause many different diseases in animals and plants including influenza, AIDS, measles, chicken pox, Zika and other illnesses.
Some viruses can cause chronic infections, such as hepatitis B.
Pheneturide (or ethylphenacemide) is an anticonvulsant medication
Gentisic acid is a dihydroxybenzoic acid.
It is a crystalline powder that forms monoclinic prism in water solution.
Gentisic acid is an active metabolite of salicylic acid degradation.
There is an increasing amount of evidence indicating that gentisic acid has a broad spectrum of biological activity, such as anti-inflammatory, antirheumatic and antioxidant properties.
Gentisic acid is also a byproduct of tyrosine and benzoate metabolism.
Nystagmus is a rapid oscillation of the eyes which can be due to neurologic or optic causes.
Nystagmus motion can be planar (horizontal, vertical, or in-between) or torsional.
The null point is the head posture adopted by an individual to stop or minimize nystagmus.
Null point is also used to describe abnormal head positions that provide the best vision with other eye conditions.
The total fluoroscopy duration is the total time of fluoroscopic exposure between the start and end of the procedure.
Epinephrine testing is used to distinguish cases of suspected pheochromocytome from other causes of episodic hypertensive symptoms.
Formononetin is an O-methylated isoflavone.
It is found in a number of plants and herbs like the red clover.
Pla a 1 is recognised by up to 92% of monosensitised London plane tree-allergic patients and 83% of polysensitised patients.
Antibodies to Kelch-like protein 11 are associated with paraneoplastic neurologic disease related to a variety of tumors including teratoma, testicular seminoma, and mixed germ cell tumors.
A fragment of the 18S rRNA gene specific to Babesia species is commonly targeted to detect and identify Babesia in human or animal specimens.
Babesia are intraerythrocytic protozoan parasites transmitted by ticks and cause babesiosis, an infection with mild to moderate symptoms, including fever, fatigue, chills, sweats, headache, myalgia, anorexia cough, arthralgia and nausea.
Patients with severe babesiosis can have respiratory failure, disseminated intravascular coagulation, congestive heart failure, liver and renal failure, and splenic infarction.
Severe symptoms typically only occur in patients who are immunosuppressed due to infections like Human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) and conditions such as cancer.
Tri a 18, is a hevein-like protein found in wheat.
The HEY1-NCOA2 (8;8)(q13;q21) fusion transcript is associated with mesenchymal chondrosarcoma, a rare sarcoma of bone and soft tissues that account for 2-10% of primary chondrosarcomas.
Wang et al found that 10 out of 15 examined mesenchymal chondrosarcomas carried the in-frame fusion of HEY1 to NCOA2.
They suggested the fusion may occur due to an interstitial deletion or a t(8;8)(q13;q21) chromosomal translocation since both genes are located on the long arm of chromosome 8.
Grade 4 sperm are as accurate as Grade 3 sperm, but move at terrific speed.
3-Hydroxystearoylcarnitine is a primary marker for Long-chain L-3-Hydroxy dehydrogenase deficiency, and Trifunctional protein deficiency.
Microorganism strain typing, also known as typing, subtyping, and fingerprinting, is used to determine the relationship between different isolates within a specific species or subspecies in order to determine their ancestral relationship and evolutionary pattern.
Typing is valuable in multiple contexts, such as detecting and tracking foodborne illness outbreaks and monitoring hospital-associated infections.
Typing methods can be based on phenotypic or genetic characteristics.
Phenotypic typing methods include serotyping, phage typing, and multilocus enzyme electrophoresis (MEE).
Genetic typing methods include pulsed-field gel electrophoresis (PFGE), ribotyping, and DNA-sequencing based methodologies such as multilocus sequence typing (MLST).
Microorganism typing can be done for a variety of organisms including bacteria, viruses, and fungi.
Sensitisation to rAsp f 3 was found in 84% of asthmatics sensitised to this fungus.
Synthetic cannabis is a psychoactive herbal and chemical product which, when consumed mimics the effects of cannabis.
It is best known by the brand names K2 and Spice, both of which have largely become genericized trademarks used to refer to any synthetic cannabis product.
A type of synthetic cannabis sold in Australasia is known as Kronic.
14-Hydroxyclarithromycin is an active metabolite of clarithromycin, an antibiotic used to treat a number of bacterial infections.
This metabolite has been shown to have microbiological activity comparable to clarithromycin and is thought to contribute significantly to the clinical efficacy of the parent drug.
The transfusion volume is the amount of a specific blood product, such as packed red blood cells or bone marrow, given to the patient during a transfusion procedure.
The BRAF gene (B-Raf proto-oncogene, serine/threonine kinase) is located on chromosome 7q34.
This gene encodes a protein involved in the regulation of the MAP kinase/ERKs signaling pathway, which affects cell division, differentiation, and secretion.
Mutations in this gene are associated with various cancers, including melanoma, colorectal cancer, ovarian cancer, non-small cell lung carcinoma, and adenocarcinoma of lung.
The two most prominent BRAF mutations are V600E (Val600Glu, c.1799T>A) and V600K (Val600Lys, c.1798_1799delGTinsAA), which result in increased kinase activity.
Patients whose tumors contained the V600E mutation respond well to BRAF inhibitors (e.g. dabrafenib).
Both V600E or V600K mutations have increased sensitivity to MEK inhibitors (e.g. trametinib).
A triage acuity systems with three-level scales (e.g., 1-emergent, 2- urgent, 3-nonurgent).
Dilute Russell viper venom time (dRVVT) is one of the tests used to detect the presence of lupus anticoagulants (LA), which are autoantibodies associated with excess clot formation, excess bleeding, and repeated miscarriages.
The coagulant in the venom directly activates factor X, which turns prothrombin into thrombin in the presence of factor V and phospholipid.
If phospholipid antibodies are present, this reaction will be inhibited, which will prolong the screening dRVVT and suggests the presence of LA.
A positive screening dRVVT result may be followed by a dRVVT mixing study using pooled normal plasma (PNP) from healthy donors as a source of coagulation factors.
If the dRVVT normalizes in the mixing study, a clotting factor deficiency is presumed to be the cause of the clotting abnormality.
Lineage nomenclatures are intended to provide a detailed level differentiation of viral mutations of SARS-CoV-2 over time.
However, proposed lineage nomenclatures are not intended to portray every evolutionary change, but rather those associated with important epidemiological and biological events.
That being said they are not as broad-brushed as clades, but are expected to correspond to outbreaks.
Deoxypyridinoline is a biochemical marker of bone turnover useful in detecting bone resorption.
Significantly high levels of DPD are found in children, in post menopausal women due to estrogen deficiency, and in patients with diseases that have high bone turnover rates.
DPD can be used to monitor antiresorptive therapies in postmenopausal women and in individuals diagnosed with osteoporosis.
DPD is s cross-link of type 1 collagen that provides tensile strength to the collagen matrix of bone.
DPD is released into circulation during bone resorption and is excreted unmetabolized into urine.
DPD levels are not affected by diet or physical exercise.
Urinary DPD concentrations reflect the true rate of bone turnover.
Human Leptin, the 167 amino acid protein hormone of the ob gene, is secreted by adipose tissue and its levels generally correlate with the basal mass index (BMI).
As BMI increases so does leptin level.
Leptin is used for body mass and energy expenditure, but is also involved as a regulatory molecule in lipid metabolism, hematopoiesis, insulin action, reproductive function, immune function, and angiogenesis.
In approximately five percent of the population, the leptin level does not reflect the BMI.
Because preterm babies metabolilze theophylline to caffeine, baselline levels of caffeine should be measured in infants treated with theophylline.
Baseline levels should also be performed in infants whose mother consumed caffeine prior to delivery.
An expectorant that also has some muscle relaxing action.
It is used in many cough preparations.
Blood is acidified, incubated for one hour and spun down to detect hemolysis.
It is used as a specific test for Paroxysmal Nocturnal Hemoglobinuria (PNH).
CD55 and CD59 markers provide a more specificity, the lower the antigenic marker, the more likely the diagnosis of PNH.
Transfer summary notes are generated by the originating institution.
The setting (when specified) is the facility the patient is being transferred out of (not where they are going).
The methylated and inorganic fractions of arsenic together comprise the toxic fraction.
The ABCA3 gene (ATP-binding cassette, sub-family A (ABC1), member 3) is located on chromosome 16p13.3.
The membrane-associated protein encoded by this gene is a member of the superfamily of ATP-binding cassette (ABC) transporters.
ABC proteins transport various molecules across extra- and intracellular membranes.
ABC genes are divided into seven distinct subfamilies (ABC1, MDR/TAP, MRP, ALD, OABP, GCN20, White).
This protein is a member of the ABC1 subfamily.
Members of the ABC1 subfamily comprise the only major ABC subfamily found exclusively in multicellular eukaryotes.
The full transporter encoded by this gene may be involved in development of resistance to xenobiotics and engulfment during programmed cell death.
Selective breeding in this species has produced the albino Laboratory Rat, widely used for medical and other research purposes.
House Rats comprise two species, Rattus norvegicus, the Brown or Norway Rat, and Rattus Rattus, the Black or Alexandrine Rat, which also originated in Asia, spread worldwide by ships, and is a well-known disease carrier, but has been largely displaced in cooler regions by the Brown Rat.
They are roughly similar in appearance and habits.
(The Brown Rat is larger, but with a shorter tail and smaller ears, while the dark-grey Black Rat is a better climber.)
Besides the House Rats, the genus Rattus contains several hundred wild-living species.
In addition, many other members of the order Rodentia are called Rats: e.g., the Bandicoot Rat, the Wood or Pack Rat, the Rice Rat, the Muskrat, and the Kangaroo Rat.
Direct or indirect contact with animal allergens frequently causes sensitisation.
4-Hydroxymidazolam is a metabolite of midazolam.
Midazolam (marketed in English-speaking countries under the trade names Dormicum, Hypnovel, and Versed), is a short-acting drug in the benzodiazepine class developed by Hoffmann-La Roche in the 1970s.
The drug is used for treatment of acute seizures, moderate to severe insomnia, and for inducing sedation and amnesia before medical procedures.
It possesses profoundly potent anxiolytic, amnestic, hypnotic, anticonvulsant, skeletal muscle relaxant, and sedative properties.
Paced beats are the beats triggered by a pacemaker.
Synephrine (or oxedrine) is a drug commonly used for weight loss.
While its effectiveness is widely debated, synephrine has gained significant popularity as an alternative to ephedrine, a related substance which has been made illegal or restricted in many countries due to health risks and its use as a precursor in the illicit manufacturing of methamphetamine.
Products containing bitter orange or synephrine are suspected of causing adverse cardiovascular reactions.
Synephrine is derived primarily from the fruit of Citrus aurantium, a relatively small citrus tree, of which several of its more common names include Bitter Orange, Sour Orange, and Zhi shi.
Dietary supplements generally supply single oral doses of 3-30 mg, while as a pharmaceutical agent it is given orally or by parenteral injection in 20-100 mg doses as a vasoconstrictor to hypotensive patients.
A grass species producing pollen, which often induces hay fever, asthma and conjunctivitis in sensitized individuals.
Paspalum has about 400 species.
P. notatum is native to southern Brazil, Uruguay, northern Argentina, and northwestern Paraguay, and is found in most Central and South American countries.
Bahia grass is a significant aeroallergen, which can induce asthma, allergic rhinitis and allergic conjunctivitis.
Trypanosoma evansi is a protozoan trypanosome in the genus trypanosoma that causes one form of the surra disease in animals.
It is pathogenic in most mammals, but only rarely causes disease in human.
An anionic, hydrophilic azo dye with an orange-yellow color used in fabrics, foods and cosmetics, and as a biological stain.
Members of the Bacillus cereus group are catalase-positive, aerobic (or facultatively anaerobic), spore-forming gram-positive bacilli.
The Bacillus cereus group is comprised of seven closely related species: B. cereus, B. mycoides, B. pseudomycoides, B. thuringiensis, B. weihenstephanensis, B. toyonensis, and B. anthracis.
Organisms in this group have been largely considered a culture contaminant, however, have also been implicated in pathologies including pneumonia, sepsis, CNS infections, wound infections, and infection of intravascular devices, particularly in immunocompromised patients.
B. cereus is associated with food poisoning due to toxin production .
Ubiquinone reductase, also known as mitochondrial complex I, catalyzes the first step of the mitochondrial electron transport chain: the oxidation of NADH with electron transfer to ubiquinone (Coenzyme Q, CoQ), which is a lipid-soluble electron carrier embedded in the lipid bilayer of the inner mitochondrial membrane.
Complex I is also considered to be one of the main sites of reactive oxygen species production, which results from electron leaks that can release single electrons to oxygen and give rise to superoxide anion.
Complex I deficiency is associated with a wide range of clinical disorders, including Parkinson disease, macrocephaly with progressive leukodystrophy, nonspecific encephalopathy, hypertrophic cardiomyopathy, myopathy, liver disease, Leigh syndrome and Leber hereditary optic neuropathy .
Pulmonary function testing (PFT), of which spirometry is one type, is an important part of the diagonis of pulmonary conditions, including asthma and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD).
PFT includes a variety of measurements, including forced expiratory volume, vital capacity, airway resistance and functional residual capacity, and is often done before and after administration of a bronchodilator.
PFT measurements help determine whether there is airflow obstruction as well as its severity and reversibility.
Tolbutamide is a first generation sulfonylurea oral hypoglycemic drug sold under the brand name Orinase.
This drug may be used in the management of type II diabetes if diet alone is not effective.
Tolbutamide stimulates the secretion of insulin by the pancreas.
Since the pancreas must synthesize insulin in order for this drug to work, it is not effective in the management of type I diabetes.
It is not routinely used due to a higher incidence of adverse effects compared to newer second generation sulfonylureas, such as glyburide.
Etacrynic acid (INN) or ethacrynic acid (USAN), trade name Edecrin, is a loop diuretic used to treat high blood pressure and the swelling caused by diseases like congestive heart failure, liver failure, and kidney failure.
Unlike the other loop diuretics, etacrynic acid is not a sulfonamide and thus, its use is not contraindicated in those with sulfa allergies.
Etacrynic acid is a phenoxyacetic acid derivative containing a ketone and a methylene group.
A cysteine adduct is formed with the methylene group and this is the active form.
Protein phosphatase 3 (formerly 2B), catalytic subunit, gamma isoform, also known as PPP3CC, is a human gene.
Calmodulin-dependent protein phosphatase, calcineurin, is involved in a wide range of biologic activities, acting as a Ca(2+)-dependent modifier of phosphorylation status.
In testis, the motility of the sperm is thought to be controlled by cAMP-dependent phosphorylation and a unique form of calcineurin appears to be associated with the flagellum.
The platelet component distribution width (PCDW) is the standard deviation of the platelet component concentration; a measure of platelet shape change.
PCDW may be a potentially useful marker for the early diagnosis of thromboembolic and hypertensive disorders.
Juniperus scopulorum (Rocky Mountain Juniper) is a small tree reaching 5-20 m tall, native to western North America, in Canada in British Columbia and southwest Alberta, in the United States from Washington east to North Dakota, south to Arizona and also locally western Texas, and northernmost Mexico from Sonora east to Coahuila.
It mostly grows at altitudes of 1,200-2,700 m (down to sea level in the Puget Sound area) on dry soils, often together with other juniper species.
An anesthetic or anti-inflammatory medication injection targeted at a nerve or group of nerves to temporarily relieve pain in a specific location, or to decrease inflammation in that area.
A nerve block is usually an outpatient procedure performed by a radiologist or anesthesiologist.
Imaging guidance such as fluoroscopy or computed tomography is often used to help place the needle for maximum benefit.
Examples for types of nerve blocks and body regions are: 1) Trigeminal nerve blocks (face), 2) cervical epidural, thoracic epidural, and lumbar epidural block (neck and back), and 3) cervical plexus block and cervical paravertebral block (shoulder and upper neck).
Benefits may include; temporary pain relief, temporary reduction of inflammation, diagnostic information, and improved function in daily activities.
Some risks include; infection, bleeding, delivery of medication to the blood stream, or blocking the wrong nerve.
Anthraquinone, also called anthracenedione or dioxoanthracene is an aromatic organic compound with formula C14H8O2, that can be viewed as a diketone derivative of anthracene (with loss of two double bonds in the latter).
The term usually refers to one specific isomer, 9,10-anthraquinone or 9,10-dioxoanthracene, whose ketone groups are on the central ring.
This compound is an important member of the quinone family.
It is a building block of many dyes and is industrially used in bleaching pulp for papermaking.
It is a yellow highly crystalline solid, poorly soluble in water but soluble in hot organic solvents.
For instance, it is almost completely insoluble in ethanol near room temperature but 2.25 g will dissolve in 100 g of boiling ethanol.
Several other anthraquinone isomers are possible, such as 1,2-, 1,4-, and 2,6-anthraquinone, but they are of comparatively minor importance.
The term is also used in the more general sense of any compound that can be viewed as an anthraquinone with some hydrogen atoms replaced by other atoms or functional groups.
These derivatives include many substances that are technically useful or play important roles in living beings.
Urinary cortisol reflects the portion of serum-free cortisol filtered by the kidney, freely filtered.
It correlates with cortisol secretion rate.
Ricin is a poison found naturally in castor beans.
If castor beans are chewed and swallowed, the released ricin can cause injury.
Ricin can be made from the waste material left over from processing castor beans.
It can be in the form of a powder, a mist, or a pellet, or it can be dissolved in water or weak acid.
It is a stable substance under normal conditions, but can be inactivated by heat above 80 degrees Centigrade.
Castor beans are processed throughout the world to make castor oil.
Ricin is part of the waste "mash" produced when castor oil is made.
Ricin has been used experimentally in medicine to kill cancer cells.
The ANA smooth nuclear envelope pattern, previous called nuclear rim, nuclear membrane, and membranous, is not specific for any one or group of autoimmune disorders.
It is associated with several antigens including laminin A, B, and C, and lamin-associated proteins.
Ribulose is a ketopentose - a monosaccharide containing five carbon atoms, and including a ketone functional group.
It has chemical formula C5H10O5.
Two enantiomers are possible, D-ribulose (D-erythro-pentulose) and L-ribulose (L-erythro-pentulose).
D-Ribulose is the diastereomer of D-xylulose.
Ribulose sugars are composed in the pentose phosphate pathway.
They are important in the formation of many bioactive substances.
For example, D-ribulose is an intermediate in the fungal pathway for D-arabitol production.
Also, as the 1,5-bisphosphate, D-ribulose combines with carbon dioxide at the start of the photosynthetic process in green plants (carbon dioxide trap).
A synthetic form of ribulose known as sucroribulose is found in many brands of artificial sweeteners.
The DPYD gene (dihydropyrimidine dehydrogenase) is located on chromosome 1 at position p22.
The protein encoded by this gene is a pyrimidine catabolic enzyme and the initial and rate-limiting factor in the pathway of uracil and thymidine catabolism.
Mutations in this gene result in dihydropyrimidine dehydrogenase deficiency, an error in pyrimidine metabolism associated with thymine-uraciluria and an increased risk of toxicity in cancer patients receiving 5-fluorouracil chemotherapy.
Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
Keratin, type I cytoskeletal 19 also known as cytokeratin-19 (CK-19) or keratin-19 (K19) is a protein that in humans is encoded by the KRT19 gene.
Due to its high sensitivity, KRT19 is the most used marker for the RT-PCR-mediated detection of tumor cells disseminated in lymph nodes, peripheral blood, and bone marrow of breast cancer patients.
Depending on the assays, KRT19 has been shown to be both a specific and a non-specific marker.
False positivity in such KRT19 RT-PCR studies include: illegitimate transcription (expression of small amounts of KRT19 mRNA by tissues in which it has no real physiological role), haematological disorders (KRT19 induction in peripheral blood cells by cytokines and growth factors, which circulate at higher concentrations in inflammatory conditions and neutropenia), the presence of pseudogenes (two KRT19 pseudogenes, KRT19a and KRT19b, have been identified, which have significant sequence homology to KRT19 mRNA.
Subsequently, attempts to detect the expression of the authentic KRT19 may result in the detection of either or both of these pseudogenes), sample contamination (introduction of contaminating epithelial cells during peripheral blood sampling for subsequent RT-PCR analysis).
Keratin 19 is often used together with keratin 8 and keratin 18 to differentiate cells of epithelial origin from hematopoietic cells in tests that enumerate circulating tumor cells in blood.
The NEFL gene (neurofilament, light polypeptide) is located on chromosome 8p21.
Neurofilaments are type IV intermediate filament heteropolymers composed of light, medium, and heavy chains.
Neurofilaments comprise the axoskeleton and they functionally maintain the neuronal caliber.
They may also play a role in intracellular transport to axons and dendrites.
This gene encodes the light chain neurofilament protein.
Mutations in this gene cause Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease types 1F (CMT1F) and 2E (CMT2E), disorders of the peripheral nervous system that are characterized by distinct neuropathies.
A pseudogene has been identified on chromosome Y.
Semisynthetic wide-spectrum cephalosporin with prolonged action, probably due to beta-lactamase resistance.
It is used also as the nafate.
The BTD gene (biotinidase) is located on chromosome 3p25.
The protein encoded by this gene functions to recycle protein-bound biotin by cleaving biocytin (biotin-epsilon-lysine), a normal product of carboxylase degradation, resulting in regeneration of free biotin.
The encoded protein has also been shown to have biotinyl transferase activity.
Mutations in this gene are associated with biotinidase deficiency.
Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been described.
The cardio-ankle vascular index (CAVI) reflects the stiffness of the aorta, femoral and tibial arteries, may be a marker of coronary arteriosclerosis, and is theoretically not affected by blood pressure.
It is calculated based on measurements from EKG, phonocardiogram, brachial artery waveform, and ankle artery waveform.
The CLN8 gene (ceroid-lipofuscinosis, neuronal 8) is located on chromosome 8p23.
This gene encodes a transmembrane protein belonging to a family of proteins containing TLC domains, which are postulated to function in lipid synthesis, transport, or sensing.
The protein localizes to the endoplasmic reticulum (ER), and may cycle between the ER and ER-Golgi intermediate compartment.
Mutations in this gene are associated with progressive epilepsy with mental retardation (EMPR), which is a subtype of neuronal ceroid lipofuscinoses (NCL).
Patients with mutations in this gene have altered levels of sphingolipid and phospholipids in the brain.
The male sex chromosome, being the differential sex chromosome carried by half the male gametes and none of the female gametes in humans and in some other male-heterogametic species in which the homologue of the X chromosome has been retained.
Nitrophenols are a family of nitrated phenols with the formula HOC6H4NO2.
Three isomeric nitrophenols exist: - o-Nitrophenol (1-hydroxy-2-nitrobenzene; OH and NO2 groups are neighboring; CAS number: 88-75-5), a yellow crystalline solid (m.p. 46 °C).
- m-Nitrophenol (1-hydroxy-3-nitrobenzene), a yellow solid (m.p. 97 °C) and precursor to the drug aminosalicylic acid.
- p-Nitrophenol (1-hydroxy-4-nitrobenzene, CAS number: 100-02-7), yellow crystals (m.p. 114 °C).
It is a precursor to the rice herbicide fluorodifen and the pesticide parathion.
The nitrophenols are produced industrially by the reaction of chlorides with sodium hydroxide at temperatures close to 200 C. The mononitrated phenols are often hydrogenated to the corresponding aminophenols that are also useful industrially.
Calluna vulgaris, common heather, ling, or simply heather, is the sole species in the genus Calluna in the flowering plant family Ericaceae.
Hemolytic anemia can be caused by red blood cell (RBC) membrane disorders such as hereditary spherocytosis, hereditary pyropoikilocytosis, hereditary elliptocytosis, and hereditary stomatocytosis.
Alterations in the RBC membrane cause its shape to change from the typical torus, resulting in a lower surface area that makes the cell more fragile when placed in a hypotonic saline solution.
This fragility becomes greater over time, as RBC membrane changes faster than normal.
Osmotic fragility testing evaluates the extent of RBC membrane alteration.
The serum-peritoneal fluid effusion glucose gradient is measured as part a differential diagnosis of exudates and transudates and bacterial peritonitis.
Sapoviruses are caliciviruses that together with the noroviruses, are the most common cause of acute viral gastroenteritis in adults.
Sapovirus are currently classified into seven genogroups (GI to GVII) based on the complete sequence of capsid.
GI, GII, GIV and GV are known to infect humans.
Unlike norovirus, this virus generally only causes mild gastroenteritis in young children.
CD117, also called KIT or C-kit receptor, is a cytokine receptor expressed on the surface of hematopoietic stem cells as well as other cell types.
This receptor binds to stem cell factor (a substance that causes certain types of cells to grow).
Altered forms of this receptor may be associated with some types of cancer.
This gene encodes the human homolog of the proto-oncogene c-kit.
C-kit was first identified as the cellular homolog of the feline sarcoma viral oncogene v-kit.
This protein is a type 3 transmembrane receptor for MGF (mast cell growth factor, also known as stem cell factor).
Mutations in this gene are associated with gastrointestinal stromal tumors, mast cell disease, acute myelogenous lukemia, and piebaldism.
Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this genE.
Chocolate contains vasoactive substances such as theobromine (metabolized to caffeine), caffeine, and phenylethylamine.
(Wille 1993 ref.772 32)
Other allergenic substances may also be present including nuts, milk, and soy.
HPV type 51 has been associated with low grade cervical abnormalities, cancer precursors, and anogenital cancers.
Amoxapine (brand-names Asendin ®, Asendis ®, Defanyl ®, Demolox ®, Moxadil ®) is a tricyclic antidepressant of the dibenzoxazepine class.
It is used in the treatment of depression, panic disorders and bipolar disorder.
Amoxapine is a strong reuptake inhibitor of norepinephrine and weak reuptake inhibitor of serotonin.
One of its major metabolites, 7-hydroxyamoxapine, has a dopamine receptor blocking effect.
In cardiovascular physiology, ejection fraction (Ef) is the fraction of blood pumped out of a ventricle with each heart beat.
The term ejection fraction applies to both the right and left ventricles; one can speak equally of the left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF) and the right ventricular ejection fraction (RVEF).
Without a qualifier, the term ejection fraction refers specifically to that of the left ventricle.
•Act d 2, a 24 kDa thaumatin-like protein found in both cultivars of Kiwi.
Allergy manifestations to Kiwi range from localized oral allergy syndrome (OAS) to life-threatening anaphylaxis.
A c-jun amino-terminal kinase that is activated by environmental stress and pro-inflammatory cytokines.
Several isoforms of the protein with molecular sizes of 48 and 54 KD exist due to multiple ALTERNATIVE SPLICING.
The influenza A virus (FLUAV) is a common respiratory virus that infects humans as well as birds, horses, seals, dogs, and pigs.
There are eight gene segments that make up the negative single-stranded RNA of the FLUAV.
The gene segments are known as PB1, PB2, PA, NP, HA, NA, M, and NS.
Hemagglutinin (HA) and neuraminidase (NA) have high antigenic variation and are the two glycoproteins on the FLUAV surface that designate its subtype.
The subtypes of FLUAV that are currently found within the human population are H1N1 and H3N2.
HA and NA subtypes are preserved in the avian species and comprise the pool of virus from which all mammalian FLUAV are drawn.
Antigenic shift is defined as important antigenic modifications in the HA and/or NA subtype within the human population.
Pigs contribute to these antigenic shifts because their trachea contain receptors to both avian and human influenza viruses.
The avian and human viruses within the pig trachea replicate in close proximity to one another, and are able to exchange genetic material and thereby create new strains of virus.
This plant is native to temperate regions of both Europe and North America.
Technically, Raspberries are those brambles in which the small, knobby, thimble-shaped fruit separates readily from the core or receptacle, unlike the similar-looking Blackberry, of which the fruit is firmly attached to the receptacle.
Raspberries are generally thought to be only bright red, but in reality can also be dark blue, yellow or white.
Raspberry may rarely induce symptoms of food allergy in sensitised individuals.
Allo-pregnanediol (5α-pregnane-3α,20α-diol), pregnanolone (5β-pregnane-3α-ol-20-one), epipregnanolone (3β-hydoxy-5β-pregnan-20-one) and pregnanediol (5ß-pregnane-3α,20α-diol) are metabolites of progesterone.
During pregnancy and in certain phases of the menstruation cycle, these metabolites are excreted at higher levels.
They are also important markers in steroid profile analysis in urine for the evaluation of an adrenal 21-hydroxylase-deficiency.
Methaqualone is a quinazoline derivative with sedative-hypnotic properties.
It was used as a treatment of insomnia, as a sedative, and a muscle relaxant.
Due to its high potential for abuse, it has been taken off the market in many countries, including the United States.
In parts of Africa and India, smoking methaqualone has become a significant public health issue.
Methaqualone is similar to barbiturates in that it induces euphoria, sedation and loss of inhibition.
This drug functions by binding to GABA receptors in the central nervous system and increasing the amount of inhibitory signals in the brain.
Methaqualoneit can be detected during a blood or urine drug test.
A dacryocyte is a type of poikilocyte that is shaped like a teardrop (a "teardrop cell").
A proliferation of dacryocytes is known as "dacrocytosis".
Dacryocytosis can be associated with myelofibrosis.
Direct or indirect contact with bird (Budgerigar, Budgie, Parakeet) allergens frequently causes sensitization.
Bird allergens may be major components in house dust
The principal alkaloid in opium and the prototype opiate analgesic and narcotic.
Morphine has widespread effects in the central nervous system and on smooth muscles.
An enzyme that catalyzes the deamination of guanine to form xanthine. .
Helicobacter pylori (H.pylori) are gram-negative bacterium usually found in the stomach.
To treat for H.pylori infections, antibiotics such as clarithromycin/metronidazole or clarithromycin/amoxicillin are given.
H.pylori is known to be resistant to clarithromycin due to decreased binding of the antibiotic to the bacterial ribosome.
The insufficient binding is caused by point mutations within the 23S rRNA peptidyl transferase -encoding region.
Three major variants (A2143G, A2142G and A2142C) in two adjacent position on the 23S rRNA gene are most commonly associated with clarithromycin resistance.
The A2143G variant is most frequently reported, whereas variants A2142G and A2142C are less common.
Various molecular assays have been developed to detect CLR resistance in H. pylori isolates in both gastric biopsy and stool specimens.
Pinus echinata (Shortleaf Pine) is a species of pine native to the eastern United States from southern New York south to northern Florida, west to the extreme southeast of Kansas, and southwest to eastern Texas.
Acanthamoeba species are ubiquitous soil and freshwater protozoa that have been associated with infections of the human brain, skin, lungs and eyes.
Species of Acanthamoeba are distinguished mainly in the form of cysts, and include the following; those marked with an asterisk are known to cause infections.
A. astronyxis*, A. castellanii*, A. comandoni, A. culbertsoni*, A. divionensis, A. griffini, A. hatchetti*, A. healyi, A. jacobsi, A. lenticulata, A. lugdunensis*, A. mauritaniensis, A. palestinensis*, A. pearcei, A. polyphaga*, A. pustulosa, A. quina*, A. rhysodes*, A. royreba, A. terricola (renamed A.castellanii Poussard), A. triangularis, and A. tubiashi.
Diseases caused by Acanthamoeba include amoebic keratitis and encephalitis.
The latter is caused by Acanthamoeba entering cuts and spreading to the central nervous system.
The intercisal angle, which is the posterior angle formed at the intersection of the long axes of the maxillary and mandibular central incisors.
Whether the patient smoked tobacco (e.g., cigarettes, pipe) and/or used a non-smoked version of tobacco (e.g., chewing tobacco).
A plant species of the genus PINUS which is the subject of genetic study.
The number of meals consumed.
Meals are defined as regular eating episodes that may include a variety of foods consisting of grains and/or starches, meat and/or meat alternatives, fruits and vegetables, and milk or milk products.
2-chlorovinyl arsonous acid (CVAA) is a metabolite of the chemical warfare agent Lewisite, an organoaresenic blistering agent and lung irritant.
CVAA is used to measure exposure to lewisite and is also inherently toxic.
Lewisite's military designation is "L." It is an oily, colorless liquid in its pure form, and can appear amber to black in its impure form with an odor like geraniums.
Exposure is usually through the air, or contaminated water or food.
It can easily penetrate ordinary clothing and even latex rubber gloves.
Skin contact causes immediate pain and itching with a rash and swelling.
Large, fluid-filled blisters (similar to those caused by mustard gas exposure) develop.
Sufficient absorption can cause deadly liver necrosis.
Because it contains arsenic, lewisite has some effects that are similar to arsenic poisoning.
Extensive eye exposure may cause permanent blindness.
Treatment consists of removal from the body as soon as possible and providing supportive medical care in a hospital setting.
An antidote is available.
(While the anion name for chemicals is preferred, this term uses the acid name for this chemical, as there is no anion name available.)
Transmissible spongiform encephalopathies (TSEs), also known as prion diseases, are a group of progressive conditions (encephalopathies) that affect the brain and nervous system of many animals, including humans.
According to the most widespread hypothesis they are transmitted by abnormal prions, though some other data suggest an involvement of a Spiroplasma infection.
Mental and physical abilities deteriorate and a myriad of tiny holes appear in the cortex causing it to appear like a sponge (hence spongiform) when brain tissue obtained at autopsy is examined under a microscope.
The disorders cause impairment of brain function, including memory changes, personality changes and problems with movement that worsen over time.
Most TSEs are sporadic and occur in animals.
Prion diseases of animals in include classical bovine spongiform encephalopathy (BSE) (C-type), atypical (H or L-type) BSE, Scrapie, atypical scrapie, Nor98, and chronic wasting disease (CWE).
H-type and L-type BSE were named based on abnormal prion bands migrating to a higher (H) or lower (L) position on western blot analysis compared to the classical BSE (C-type) prion protein.
Prion diseases of humans include classic Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease, new variant Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease (nvCJD, a human disorder related to Bovine spongiform encephalopathy), Gerstmann-Sträussler-Scheinker syndrome, fatal familial insomnia and kuru.
These conditions form a spectrum of diseases with overlapping signs and symptoms.
Mefenorex (Rondimen, Pondinil, Anexate) is a stimulant drug which was used as an appetite suppressant.
It is an amphetamine derivative which was developed in the 1970s and used for the treatment of obesity.
Mefenorex produces amphetamine as a metabolite, and has been withdrawn in many countries despite having only mild stimulant effects and relatively little abuse potential.
Sterols (also known as steroid alcohols) have cellular functions in plants similar to those of cholesterol in animals.
More than 40 plant sterols (or phytosterols) have been identified, but sitosterol, campesterol, and stigmasterol are the most abundant.
The major plant stanols are sitostanol and campestanol, and are less abundant in nature than sterols.
A high intake of these substances impairs uptake of cholesterol from the gut, thus reducing total and LDL cholesterol.
The JAK2 gene (Janus kinase 2) is located on chromosome 9p24.
This gene product is a protein tyrosine kinase involved in a specific subset of cytokine receptor signaling pathways.
It has been found to be constituitively associated with the prolactin receptor and is required for responses to gamma interferon.
Mice that do not express an active protein for this gene exhibit embryonic lethality associated with the absence of definitive erythropoiesis.
Crossreactivity between human insulin and pancreatic insulin of animal origin has been reported.
Gal d 2, also known as Ovalbumin and Albumin, is a 44 kDa phosphoglycoprotein.
Ovalbumin is a major allergen of Hen's egg white and is the most abundant of Egg white proteins, comprising 54% of the total proteins and a fivefold greater quantity than Ovomucoid.
Ovalbumin was previously considered to be the most important allergen of Egg white.
But its importance was over-estimated due to frequent contamination of commercial preparations with Ovomucoid.
In spite of a difference in the molecular weights of Ovomucoid and Ovalbumin, they cannot be completely separated by some processes, which has lead to the erroneous assumption of cross-reactions.
A thiazide diuretic often considered the prototypical member of this class.
It reduces the reabsorption of electrolytes from the renal tubules.
This results in increased excretion of water and electrolytes, including sodium, potassium, chloride, and magnesium.
It has been used in the treatment of several disorders including edema, hypertension, diabetes insipidus, and hypoparathyroidism.
Zinc deficiency may be due to excess urine losses, especially in cirrhosis, hemolytic anemias, sickle cell disease, alcoholism, diabetes, or chronic renal diseases.
Urine zinc levels are measured to evaluate therapy compliance in patients with Wilson's disease.
Zinc is excreted mainly in feces, but elevated urine zinc levels may suggest excessive zinc supplementation.
Growth retardation, hypogonadism, skin changes, poor appetite, mental lethargy and delayed wound healing are some manifestations of chronic zinc deficiency.
Severe deficiency may be life threatening in patients with acrodermatitis enteropathica.
Pentylone is a cathinone derivative, a stimulant that has been identified as a component of the drug mixture, NRG ("energy"), categorized as a designer drug or substance of abuse.
The physiological, neurological, and toxic actions of pentylone have not yet been characterized (2017) but synthetic cathinones cause amphetamine-like effects.
They are mainly used for social purposes but are also used for their stimulant properties as a replacement for illicit drug use.
Effects of synthetic cathinones depend on the individual, the dosage of drug administered and the route of administration but the primary effects which make them attractive are increased alertness, sociability, effectiveness in work, euphoria, intense physical and sensory pleasure and a decreased appetite.
The most common adverse effects are cardiac and neurologic.
Metaxalone (marketed by King Pharmaceuticals under the brand name Skelaxin) is a muscle relaxant used to relax muscles and relieve pain caused by strains, sprains, and other musculoskeletal conditions.
Its exact mechanism of action is not known, but it may be due to general central nervous system depression.
It is considered to be a moderately strong muscle relaxant, with relatively low incidence of side effects.
Bruton tyrosine kinase (Btk) is an intracellular protein that plays a crucial role in B-cell development.
Mutations in the BTK gene are known to cause primary immunodeficiency disease X-linked agammaglobulinemia (XLA, Bruton's agammaglobulinemia).
Approximately 20% to 30% of XLA patients may have intact or truncated Btk protein with abnormal function.
Therefore, gene mutation analysis by sequencing or other methods is more definitive for diagnosing XLA.
Echinococcus granulosus infects dogs and other canines as the definitive host and sheep, cattle, goats, and humans as intermediate hosts.
Cystic hydatid disease often affects the liver but other organs may be involved.
Transitional epithelium (also known as urothelium) is a type of tissue consisting of multiple layers of epithelial cells which can contract and expand.
These cells, part of the epithelium, are usually found in the urinary tract, especially around the urinary bladder.
They are also found in the ureters, superior urethra and gland ducts of the prostate.
The term opiate refers to the alkaloids found in opium, an extract from the seed pods of the opium poppy (Papaver somniferum L.).
It encompasses natural and semi-synthetic derivatives of morphine.
The term is often incorrectly used to refer to all drugs with opium- or morphine-like pharmacological action, which are more properly classified under the broader term opioid.
The main opiates derived from opium are morphine, codeine and thebaine.
Papaverine and noscapine are included, but have essentially no effect on the central nervous system, and are not usually considered to be opioids.
Papaveretum is a standardised preparation of mixed opium alkaloids used on cardiac patients.
Eosin-5-maleimide (EMA) is a fluorescent dye used in flow cytometry to screen for hereditary spherocytosis (HS).
Patients with HS have red blood cells (RBC) that are overly rigid and misshapen and are removed by the spleen for destruction which leads to anemia, jaundice and splenomegaly.
EMA binds covalently to Lys-430 on the first extracellular loop of the Band 3 protein on RBCs.
The cytoplasmic portion of Band 3 communicates with ankyrin and protein 4.2 that are crosslinked with the spectrin-based cytoskeleton that acts to stabilize the cell membrane.
When band 3 is deficient or abnormal on RBCs fluorescence using EMA may be reduced.
The mean fluorescent intensity (MFI) of the patient and control cells is measured and the result is expressed as a ratio of patient MFI to control MFI.MedlinePlus Condition: hereditary-spherocytosis]
At least three mutations (L49P, H176N and N140S) in the GNMT gene are known to reduced levels of glycine N-methyltransferase, which leads to hypermethioninemia in affected individuals.
Certain familial variations in the GNMT gene have been associated with an increased risk of liver and prostate cancers.
A microorganism or microbe is an organism that is microscopic (too small to be visible to the naked eye).
Microorganisms are often described as single-celled, or unicellular organisms; however, some unicellular protists are visible to the naked eye, and some multicellular species are microscopic.
The study of microorganisms is called microbiology.
Hydroxyaripiprazole is an inactive metabolite of aripiprazole, an atypical antipsychotic drug that is a partial agonist of the dopamine D2 receptor and is used to treat schizophrenia.
CYP2D6 and CYP3A4 primarily metabolize aripiprazole to its active metabolite dehydroaripiprazole, and CYP2D6 is also responsible for metabolizing to hydroxyaripiprazole.
An enzyme that catalyzes the conversion of (S)-malate and NAD+ to oxaloacetate and NADH. .
The KCNQ1OT1 gene (KCNQ1 opposite strand/antisense transcript 1 (non-protein coding)) is located on chromosome 11p15.
Human chromosomal region 11p15.5 contains two clusters of epigenetically-regulated genes that are expressed from only one chromosome in a parent-of-origin manner.
Each cluster, or imprinted domain, is regulated by a functionally independent imprinting control region (ICR).
The human CDKN1C/KCNQ1OT1 domain is regulated by an ICR located in an intron of KCNQ1, and contains at least eight genes that are expressed exclusively or preferentially from the maternally-inherited allele.
The DNA of the ICR is specifically methylated on the maternally-inherited chromosome, and unmethylated on the paternally-inherited chromosome.
The ICR contains the promoter of the KCNQ1OT1 gene that is exclusively expressed from the paternal allele.
The KCNQ1OT1 transcript is the antisense to the KCNQ1 gene and is a unspliced long non-coding RNA.
It interacts with chromatin and regulates transcription of multiple target genes through epigenetic modifications.
The transcript is abnormally expressed from both chromosomes in most patients with Beckwith-Wiedemann syndrome, and the transcript also plays an important role in colorectal carcinogenesis.
Imipramine (sold as Antideprin ®, Deprenil, Deprimin, Deprinol, Depsonil, Dynaprin, Eupramin, Imipramil, Irmin, Janimine ®, Melipramin, Surplix, Tofranil ®) is an antidepressant medication, a tricyclic antidepressant of the dibenzazepine group, mainly used in the treatment of clinical depression and enuresis.
Ambroxol is a compound associated with the production and transport of bronchial mucus.
It is typically used to treat respiratory diseases that are associated with abnormal mucus production, and has been shown to have an anesthetic effect that can be helpful in the treatment of acute respiratory infections as well.
Cefazolin, also known as cefazoline or cephazolin, is a antibiotic used for the treatment of a number of bacterial infections and usually administered by either intramuscular injection or intravenous infusion.
As a first-generation cephalosporin antibiotic, cefazolin is very active against gram-positive bacteria and some gram-negative bacteria.
The broad spectrum of activity can be contributed to the improved stability to many bacterial beta-lactamases compared to penicillins.
Due to possible cross-reactivity with penicillins, people who have experienced anaphylaxis to penicillins are not advised to receive cephalosporins.
Common side effects include nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, and rash.
Used in a variety of infections provided that susceptible organisms are involved, cefazolin is indicated for use in the following infections: respiratory tract, urinary tract, skin, biliary tract, bone and joint, genital, sepsis, and endocarditis.
Cefazolin is on the World Health Organization's List of Essential Medicines.
A non-selective beta-adrenergic antagonist with a long half-life, used in cardiovascular disease to treat arrhythmias, angina pectoris, and hypertension.
Nadolol is also used for MIGRAINE DISORDERS and for tremor.
Passiflora edulis is a vine species of passion flower that is native to Paraguay, Brazil and northeastern Argentina (Corrientes and Misiones provinces).
Common names include Passion Fruit (UK and US), Passionfruit (Australia and New Zealand), Granadilla (South America), Magrandera Shona (Zimbabwe), and Lạc tiên, Chanh dây or Chanh leo (Vietnamese)
Narasin is an ionophore antibiotic currently used as a feed additive to increased weight gain and feed efficiency in swine.
Ionophore antibiotics have the potential to cause toxicosis either by excessive dose levels or when administered with other potentiating agents.
Narasin toxicosis is characterized by anorexia, respiratory distress, muscle weakness and death.
The internal transcribed spacer (ITS) region of ribosomal DNA is present across a variety of bacterial and fungal pathogens.
The ITS region includes ITS1 and ITS2, and plays a role in RNA processing.
The ITS region contains portions that are highly conserved across species as well as those that are species-specific.
Assays targeting the conserved portion can be used to detect the presence of a pathogen, and if a pathogen is detected, further testing to determine the specific organism present is performed.
A genus of microorganisms of the order SPIROCHAETALES, many of which are pathogenic and parasitic for man.
True Cinnamon is the dried or powdered inner bark of the Cinnamomum zeylanicum tree and has been used as a spice and in perfume and incense for over 5000 years.
True Cinnamon is a native of Sri Lanka and was a monopoly of that country before sources developed on the neighbouring Malabar Coast of India, and in Myanmar (Burma), South America and the West Indies.
True Cinnamon should be distinguished from the closely related Cassia (Chinese Cinnamon, used in China long before True Cinnamon but now considered an inferior substitute), which is obtained from Cinnamomum cassia, grown in China.
True Cinnamon has been replaced almost entirely by Cassia in many markets and is not often used-nor are consumers often aware of the difference.
Cassia is thicker, darker, more pungent and rougher in appearance, with a less subtle flavour.
It is the main source of Cinnamon oil.
Cinnamon may commonly induce symptoms of food allergy in sensitised individuals.
Carnitine is used to mean total carnitines, because historically total carnitine was measured by heating up the sample and breaking off the esters which provided pure carnitine.
(Carnitine is also a single molecule which is described as free carnitine - with the acronym, C0).
Aclycarnitine is not a single moiety but rather describes all of the esterified carnitines.
So Total carnitine = free carnitine(C0) + acylcarnitine = esterified + unesterified carnitine.
Lithium, atomic symbol Li, atomic number 3, and atomic weight 6.94, belongs to the alkali metals family.
Salts of lithium are used to treat manic-depressive disorders.
Fumaric acid is produced by the dehydrogenation of succinic acid by the enzyme succinic acid dehydrogenase in the Krebs cycle.
Elevations noted in patients with fumarase deficiency.
1,4-Dioxane, often just called dioxane, is a clear, colorless heterocyclic organic compound which is a liquid at room temperature and pressure.
It has the molecular formula C4 H8 O2 and a boiling point of 101 °C.
It is commonly used as an aprotic solvent.
1,4-Dioxane has a weak smell similar to that of diethyl ether.
There are also two other less common isomeric compounds, 1,2-dioxane and 1,3-dioxane.
1,2-dioxane is a peroxide which forms naturally in old bottles of tetrahydrofuran.
1,4-Dioxane is classified as an ether, with each of its two oxygen atoms forming an ether functional group.
It is more polar than diethyl ether, which also has four carbons, but only one ether functional group.
Diethyl ether is rather insoluble in water, but 1,4-dioxane is miscible with water and is hygroscopic.
Its higher polarity and slightly higher molecular mass also gives it a substantially higher boiling point than diethyl ether.
This compound is irritating to the eyes and respiratory tract.
Exposure may cause damage to the central nervous system, liver and kidneys.
Accidental worker exposure to 1,4-dioxane has resulted in several deaths.
Dioxane is classified by the IARC as a Group 2B carcinogen: possibly carcinogenic to humans because it is a known carcinogen in other animals.
Dioxane is toxic to rats.
1,4-Dioxane is very harmful in vapor phase.
The NOD2 gene (nucleotide-binding oligomerization domain containing 2) is located on chromosome 16q21.
This gene is a member of the Nod1/Apaf-1 family and encodes a protein with two caspase recruitment (CARD) domains and six leucine-rich repeats (LRRs).
The protein is primarily expressed in the peripheral blood leukocytes.
It plays a role in the immune response to intracellular bacterial lipopolysaccharides (LPS) by recognizing the muramyl dipeptide (MDP) derived from them and activating the NFKB protein.
Mutations in this gene have been associated with Crohn disease and Blau syndrome.
Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms have been found for this gene.
E-selectin, also known as CD62E, is a cell adhesion molecule expressed only on endothelial cells activated by cytokines.
Like other selectins, it plays an important part in inflammation.
In humans, E-selectin is encoded by the SELE gene.
4-Hydroxy 3-Nitrophenylacetate (HNPAA) a metabolite of the chemical toxin tetranitromethane.
Tetranitromethane is a synthetic, oily, colorless to pale-yellow liquid used as an oxidizing agent in rocket propellants and explosives as well as an additive in diesel fuel.
The primary route of potential human exposure to tetranitromethane is inhalation.
Acute inhalation exposure to tetranitromethane can result in irritation of the respiratory tract, pulmonary edema, and methemoglobinemia.
Contact can cause irritation of the eyes and skin.
It is thought to be a human carcinogen.
Tetranitromethane is classified as a chemical warfare agent.
Propylhexedrine (Benzedrex, Dristan, Obesin) is a stimulant drug related to methamphetamine.
It is used mainly to provide temporary symptomatic relief of nasal congestion due to colds, allergies and allergic rhinitis.
Being a vasoconstrictor used to decongest nasal mucosa, it is administered by inhalation.
A wood from a tree species, whose dust may frequently induce hayfever, asthma and conjunctivitis in sensitised individuals.
This tree is widely distributed in tropical West Africa, from Guinea to Cameroon.
Cabotegravir is an investigational drug being developed for the treatment and prevention of infection by the human immunodeficiency virus 1 (HIV-1).
It is an integrase strand transfer inhibitor (INSTI) that binds to the HIV-1 integrase enzyme and prevents viral DNA integration into the host genome and blocks HIV-1 reproduction.
Cabotegravir can be taken orally in tablet form or as an injection.
The most common side effects have been described as mild or moderate and include injection site reaction, fatigue, fever, headache, and nausea.
Other rare but more serious side effects include arthritis of the knee, presyncope, sudden onset of pancreatitis, allergic reaction, vertigo, weakness, gastrointestinal problems, rash, and neurological issues.
The contrast ratio is the percent contrast at which a patient's visual acuity was measured.
It is different from contrast sensitivity, which is a measurement of the minimum amount of contrast a patient can detect.
Severe combined immunodeficiency (SCID), or Bubble Boy Syndrome, (also known as "Alymphocytosis," "Glanzmann-Riniker syndrome," "Severe mixed immunodeficiency syndrome," and "Thymic alymphoplasia" is a genetic disorder in which both "arms" (B cells and T cells) of the adaptive immune system are crippled, due to a defect in one of several possible genes.
SCID is a severe form of heritable immunodeficiency.
It is also known as the "bubble boy" disease because its victims are extremely vulnerable to infectious diseases and some of them, such as David Vetter, become famous for living in a sterile environment.
SCID is the effect of a highly compromised, so much it is almost considered absent, immune system.
The gene mutations that cause SCID are not just for the disorder.
The buildup of dATP, which induces the cell to make cytochrome c, destroys and signals for apoptosis in all rapidly proliferating cells.
This includes cells in the GI tract, immune system lymphocytes, and sperm cells.
Chronic diarrhoea, ear infections, recurrent Pneumocystis jirovecii pneumonia, and profuse oral candidiasis commonly occur.
These babies, if untreated, usually die within 1 year due to severe, recurrent infections unless they have undergone successful Hematopoietic stem cell transplantation.
The ATP1A2 gene (ATPase, Na+/K+ transporting, alpha 2 polypeptide) is located on chromosome 1q23.2.
The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the family of P-type cation transport ATPases, and to the subfamily of Na+/K+ -ATPases.
Na+/K+ -ATPase is an integral membrane protein responsible for establishing and maintaining the electrochemical gradients of Na and K ions across the plasma membrane.
These gradients are essential for osmoregulation, for sodium-coupled transport of a variety of organic and inorganic molecules, and for electrical excitability of nerve and muscle.
This enzyme is composed of two subunits, a large catalytic subunit (alpha) and a smaller glycoprotein subunit (beta).
The catalytic subunit of Na+/K+ -ATPase is encoded by multiple genes.
This gene encodes an alpha 2 subunit.
Mutations in this gene result in familial basilar or hemiplegic migraines, and in a rare syndrome known as alternating hemiplegia of childhood.
The GLRA1 gene (glycine receptor, alpha 1) is located on chromosome 5q32.
The protein encoded by this gene, glycine receptor alpha-1, is a subunit of a pentameric inhibitory glycine receptor.
The receptor mediates postsynaptic inhibition in the central nervous system.
Defects in this gene are a cause of startle disease (STHE), also known as hereditary hyperekplexia or congenital stiff-person syndrome.
Three transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
Mycobacterium tuberculosis (MTB) is a pathogenic bacterial species in the genus Mycobacterium and the causative agent of most cases of tuberculosis (TB).
M. tuberculosis has an unusual, waxy coating on its cell surface (primarily mycolic acid), which makes the cells impervious to Gram staining, so acid-fast detection techniques are used, instead.
The physiology of M. tuberculosis is highly aerobic and requires high levels of oxygen.
Primarily a pathogen of the mammalian respiratory system, MTB infects the lungs.
The most frequently used diagnostic methods for TB are the tuberculin skin test, acid-fast stain, and chest radiographs
Retinoic acid is the oxidized form of Vitamin A, with only partial vitamin A function.
It functions in determining position along embryonic anterior/posterior axis in chordates.
It acts through Hox genes, which ultimately control anterior/posterior patterning in early developmental stages.
Retinoic acid acts by binding to heterodimers of the retinoic acid receptor (RAR) and the retinoid X receptor (RXR), which then bind to retinoic acid response elements (RAREs) in the regulatory regions of direct targets (including Hox genes), thereby activating gene transcription.
Retinoic acid receptors mediate transcription of different sets of genes of cell differentiation, thus it also depends on the target cells.
One of the target genes is the gene of the retinoic acid receptor itself, which occurs during positive regulation.
Control of retinoic acid levels is maintained by a suite of proteins.
Retinoic acid can be produced by oxidation in the body from either retinal or retinol, but, once produced, cannot be reduced again.
Retinoic acid is responsible for all of the activity of vitamin A, save visual pigment effects, which require retinal (retinaldehyde), and for effects that require retinol in both the male and female reproductive tracts.
Vitamin A-deprived retinoic acid-supplemented male rats exhibit hypogonadism and infertility; similar treatment of female rats causes infertility due to fetal resorption.
Cultivated Wheat is of uncertain origin, perhaps coming from the Middle East.
It is known only under cultivation.
This cereal is widely cultivated in temperate countries and in cooler parts of tropical countries.
Next to Rice, it is the world's most widely used grain.
Cultivated Wheat pollen is a predominant cause of asthma, allergic rhinitis and allergic conjunctivitis.
Found on NK-cells Associated with Large granular lymphocytosis and Angiocentric lymphomas
Coxiella burnetii is an obligate intracellular, pleomorphic bacillus and is the bacterium that causes Q fever.
Its only known targets are monocytes and macrophages.
C burnetii infection in humans is typically asymptomatic, but in acute disease can exhibit symptoms of a self-limited flu-like illness, pneumonia or hepatitis.
Symptoms of chronic C burnetii infection include primarily endocarditis, but also hepatitis and chronic fatigue syndrome.
Pregnant women infected with C burnetii may experience abortions, premature deliveries, and stillbirth.
Ticks are the reservoir and vector for C burnetii, and cattle, sheep, and goats are the primary sources of infection in humans.
C burnetii is transmitted in infected secretions, and people with predisposing factors such as underlying disease and compromised cell-mediated immunity are at a greater risk of symptomatic infection.
The shikimate dehydrogenase gene (aroE) is a housekeeping gene of C burnetti that is targeted in nucleic acid amplification assays to aid in the diagnose C burnetii infection.
7,8-Dihydrobiopterin (7,8-BH2) is an oxidation product of tetrahydrobiopterin (BH4), the primary active cofactor required for the synthesis of tyrosine and the neurotransmitters dopamine and serotonin.
Defects in the metabolism or regeneration of BH4 are seen in patients with hyperphenylalaninaemia who may also have progressive neurological degeneration, mental and physical retardation, central hypotonia and peripheral spasticity, seizures and/or microcephaly.
One study reported a patient with atypical phenylketonuria caused by a 7, 8-dihydrobiopterin synthetase deficiency.
Glycine (Gly, G) is a nonpolar amino acid.
It is the simplest of the 20 standard (proteinogenic) amino acids: its side chain is a hydrogen atom.
Because there is a second hydrogen atom at the Î± carbon, glycine is not optically active.
Since glycine has such a small side chain, it can fit into many places where no other amino acid can.
For example, only glycine can be the internal amino acid of a collagen helix.
Glycine is very evolutionarily stable at certain positions of some proteins (for example, in cytochrome c, myoglobin, and hemoglobin), because mutations that change it to an amino acid with a larger side chain could break the protein's structure.
Most proteins contain only small quantities of glycine.
A notable exception is collagen, which is about one-third glycine.
Methylparaben, also methyl paraben, one of the parabens, is a preservative with the chemical formula CH3(C6H4(OH)COO).
It is the methyl ester of p-hydroxybenzoic acid.
Methylparaben is readily absorbed from the gastrointestinal tract or through the skin.
It is hydrolyzed to p-hydroxybenzoic acid and rapidly excreted without accumulation in the body.
Acute toxicity studies have shown that methylparaben is practically non-toxic by both oral and parenteral administration.
In a population with normal skin, methylparaben is practically non-irritating and non-sensitizing; however, allergic reactions to ingested parabens have been reported Studies indicate that methylparaben applied on the skin reacts with UVB leading to increased skin aging and DNA damage.
The Phlebovirus genus is divided into two groups, the sandfly fever virus group and the Uukuniemi-like virus group.
So far 70 separate viruses have been assigned to the Phlebovirus genus, including Toscana virus, Rift Valley fever virus, Sandfly fever viruses, and Uukuniemi virus.
Different species are transmitted by ticks, mosquitoes, and sandflies.
Phlebovirus infections can range from a self-limited febrile illness to encephalitis to a syndrome of severe fever with thrombocytopenia.
3-Hydroxyvaleric acid may be products of the condensation of propionyl-CoA with acetyl-CoA catalyzed by 3-oxoacyl-CoA thiolases.
An increase amount of 3-hydroxyvaleric acid can be found in methylmalonic acidemia and propionic acidemia. .
Borrelia afzelii is a species of Borrelia genus that can infect various species of vertebrate and invertebrates.
Among thirty Borrelia known species, it is one of 4 which is likely to infect humans causing a variant of Lyme disease.
It seems fairly common that coinfection combine this Borrelia specieS to another one or to other pathogens carried by the vector, which appears to be in most cases the tick.
Freesia is a genus of herbaceous plants in the Iridaceae (Iris) family and containing numerous species and cultivated hybrids.
They are known for their cone-shaped flowers.
High exposure to pollen from ornamental flowers, including Freesia, can induce an IgE-mediated occupational allergies, such as asthma and rhinitis.
Chlorhexidine is a cationic chlorophenyl biguanido antiseptic and disinfectant and is commonly used as the diacetate or digluconate salt.
Its structure is symmetrical with two identical epitopes, which implies that chlorhexidine per se would be capable of cross linking IgE antibodies on the surface of mast cells and basophiles thereby eliciting allergic reactions by histamine release in sensitized individuals.
This mechanism has been demonstrated with similar divalent drugs such as the muscle relaxant suxamethonium.
Exposure to the allergen often occurs as skin disinfection prior to surgery and blood tests or by urinary catheterization, disinfection of a drain insertion site, or placement of a central venous catheter.
Exposure also occurs upon use of gel in vaginal and rectal examinations and in connection with dental procedures.
Chlorhexidine exposure is also wide-spread in homes from use of numerous products such as cleaning fluids, toothpastes, mouth rinses etc.
Dilute Russell viper venom time (dRVVT) is a screening laboratory test for detecting the presence of lupus anticoagulants (LA), which are autoantibodies associated with excess clot formation, excess bleeding, and repeated miscarriages.
The coagulant in the venom directly activates factor X, which turns prothrombin into thrombin in the presence of factor V and phospholipid.
If phospholipid antibodies are present, this reaction will be inhibited, which will prolong the screening dRVVT and suggests the presence of LA.
A confirmatory dRVVT test measures dRVVT in the presence of excess phospholipid, which saturates the antibody binding sites and thereby diminishes the inhibitory effect of the LA, resulting in a normalization of the dRVVT.
The dRVVT screen to confirm ratio is calculated as Screen dRVVT/Confirm dRVVT, and the dRVVT percent correction is calculated as x100.
Rheumatoid factor (RF or RhF) is a blood test performed in patients with suspected rheumatoid arthritis (RA).
It is an auto-antibody directed against the Fc portion of IgG, which is itself an antibody.
RF and IgG form immune complexes, which are part of the disease process (serum sickness) of various rheumatological diseases.
Storage/Transport Temperature: 1 mL plasma or serum, 2-8°C.
(Min: 0.2 mL) Submit specimen in an ARUP Amber Transport Tube.
Rheumatoid factor can also be a cryoglobulin (antibody that precipitates on cooling of a blood sample); it can be either type 2 (monoclonal IgM to polyclonal IgG) or 3 (polyclonal IgM to polyclonal IgG) cryoglobulin.
Complement C3d developed for the detection of Circulating Immune Complexes (CICs).
Other CICs tests include PEG precipitation, radial immunodiffusion and cellular based assays, such as the Raji cell assay.
No single procedure appears to detect all types of CIC; however, those procedures that detect CICs containing fragments of complement (e.g., C1q and C3d) appear to detect clinically relevant events.
C3d is a fragment of the ProC3 cleaved protein once activation begins.
C3d is associated with Antibody;Antigen complexes during active phases of disease by the end result of a series of cleavage products.
(Test information from Quest Diagnostics).
Ambrosia dumosa, the burro-weed or white bursage, is a common constituent of the creosote-bush scrub community throughout the Mojave desert of California, Nevada, and Utah and the Sonoran Desert of Arizona and northwestern Mexico.
The acrylate ion (C H2=CHCOO−) is the ion of acrylic acid.
Acrylates are the salts and esters of acrylic acid.
They are also known as propenoates (since acrylic acid is also known as 2-propenoic acid).
Acrylates contain vinyl groups, that is, two carbon atoms double bonded to each other, directly attached to the carbonyl carbon.
Acrylates and methacrylates (the salts and esters of methacrylic acid) are common monomers in polymer plastics, forming the acrylate polymers.
Acrylates easily form polymers because the double bonds are very reactive.
Acrylate has been suggested to be used by marine phytoplankton as a poisonous defense against predators such as protozoa.
When attacked, DMSP lyase breaks down DMSP into DMS (g) and acrylate.
Hexacarboxylporphyrin III is a bile product that arises from the conversion of Hexacarboxylporphyrinogen III to Hexacarboxylporphyrin III by porphyrinogen carboxy-lyase .
N-monodesmethyl bedaquiline (M2) is the major metabolite of bedaquiline, a drug used to treat multi-drug resistant tuberculosis.
M2 is also active against TB but 5-fold less so than the parent drug, and the ratio of M2 to bedaquiline in patient plasma is approximately 0.25-0.30.
The MCM6 gene encodes the DNA replication licensing factor MCM6 protein, one of the highly conserved mini-chromosome maintenance (MCM) proteins.
The MCM6 gene is expressed at very high level.
MCM6 produces, by alternative splicing, 3 different transcripts.
Each transcript encodes a different protein isoform.
MCM6 contains two of the regulatory regions for LCT, the gene encoding the protein lactase, located in two of the MCM6 introns, approximately 14 kb (-13910) and 22 kb (-22018) upstream of LCT.
The (-13910) region, in particular, has been shown to function in vitro as an enhancer element capable of differentially activating transcription of LCT promoter.
Mutations in these regions and others are associated with lactose tolerance.
The POMT2 gene (protein-O-mannosyltransferase 2) is located on chromosome 14q24.
The protein encoded by this gene is an O-mannosyltransferase that requires interaction with the product of the POMT1 gene for enzymatic function.
The encoded protein is found in the membrane of the endoplasmic reticulum.
Defects in this gene are a cause of Walker-Warburg syndrome (WWS).
Alendronic acid is a bisphosphonate drug used for osteoporosis and several other bone diseases.
Platelet factor-4 (PF4) is a 70-amino acid protein that is released from the alpha-granules of activated platelets and binds with high affinity to heparin.
Its major role is to neutralize heparin-like molecules on the endothelial surface of blood vessels, thereby inhibiting local antithrombin III activity and promoting coagulation.
As a strong chemoattractant for neutrophils and fibroblasts, PF4 may play a role in inflammation and wound repair.
The heparin:PF4 complex is the immunogen in heparin-induced thrombocytopenia, an idiosyncratic autoimmune reaction that sometimes occurs following the injection of heparin.
PF4 autoantibodies have also been observed in patients with thrombosis and features resembling HIT although these patients did not receive heparin.
The LAMA2 gene (laminin, alpha 2) is located on chromosome 6q22-q23.
Laminin, an extracellular protein, is a major component of the basement membrane.
It is thought to mediate the attachment, migration, and organization of cells into tissues during embryonic development by interacting with other extracellular matrix components.
It is composed of three subunits, alpha, beta, and gamma, which are bound to each other by disulfide bonds into a cross-shaped molecule.
This gene encodes the alpha 2 chain, which constitutes one of the subunits of laminin 2 (merosin) and laminin 4 (s-merosin).
Mutations in this gene have been identified as the cause of congenital merosin-deficient muscular dystrophy.
Two transcript variants encoding different proteins have been found for this gene.
Polyols, or polyhydric alcohols, are sugar-derived metabolites for which little is known.
Until recently, galactosemia was the only inborn error of metabolims that resulted in accumlation of a polyol.
Recently other disorders causing severe effects on white matter have been defined.
The poyol pathway, also called the sorbitol-aldose reductase pathway, is thought to be implicated in diabetic complications, primarily in microvascular damage to the retina, kidney, and nerves.
Sorbitol cannot cross cell membranes, and, when it accumulates, it produces osmotic stresses on cells by drawing water into the insulin-independent tissues.
Prostanozol is an anabolic steroid designer drug which is a prodrug of the 17-demethylated analogue of stanozolol (Winstrol).
It was found in 2005 as an ingredient of products sold as "dietary supplements" for bodybuilding.
The Duffy genes, located on chromosome one at position 1922-23, have recently been cloned and sequenced.
The difference between Fy^a and Fy^b is a change in the amino acid at position 43 from aspartic acid (Fy^a) to glycine (Fy^b).
Studies have shown that blacks whose erythrocytes express Fy^b antigen also have the antigen on the cells of their kidney, heart, muscle, brain and placenta.
The Duffy gene codes for a protein known as a chemokine receptor, which is important in the inflammatory process.
Accordingly, the Fy protein is also known as DARC (Duffy Antigen Receptor for Chenokines).
Paromomycin sulfate (synonyms: monomycin, aminosidine; brand name Humatin) is an aminoglycoside antibiotic.
It is an antibiotic designed to fight intestinal infections such as cryptosporidiosis, amoebiasis, and leishmaniasis
An organophosphate cholinesterase inhibitor that is used as a pesticide.
Secretory IgA is a dimer with a special secretory component that protects it from proteolytic digestion.
IgA protects the GI tract and other endothelial surfaces from infection IgA does not cross the placenta (for practical purposes)
Quaternary ammonium cations, also known as quats, are positively charged polyatomic ions of the structure NR4+, R being an alkyl group.
Unlike the ammonium ion (NH4+) and the primary, secondary, or tertiary ammonium cations, the quaternary ammonium cations are permanently charged, independent of the pH of their solution.
Quaternary ammonium salts or quaternary ammonium compounds (called quaternary amines in oilfield parlance) are salts of quaternary ammonium cations with an anion.
Quaternary ammonium ions can cause skin and respiratory irritation.
They are thought to be the chemical group responsible for anaphylactic reactions that occur with use of neuromuscular blocking drugs during general anaesthesia in surgery.
Butyrylcarnitine+Isobutyrylcarnitine is a primary marker for Short-chain acyl-CoA dehydrogenase deficiency, Glutaric acidemia type II and Isobutyrylglycinuria, Ethylmalonic encephalopathy.
Diethylene glycol (DEG) is an organic compound with the formula (HOCH2CH2)2O. It is a colorless, practically odorless, poisonous, viscous, and hygroscopic liquid with a sweetish taste.
It is miscible in water, alcohol, ether, acetone and ethylene glycol.
DEG is a widely used solvent.
Includes: Snowshoe Hare, California Encephalitis, Lumbo, Tahyna, San Angelo, Melao, Jerry Slough, Inkoo, South River, Keystone, Serra Do Navio, Trivittatus, La Crosse & Jamestown Canyon viruses
Der f 1 and Der f 2 sensitise approximately 80% to 90% of Dermatophagoides farinae sensitised individuals
Bromoethane, also known as ethyl bromide, is a chemical compound of the haloalkanes group.
It is abbreviated by chemists as EtBr.
This volatile compound has an ether-like odour.
Black poplar (Populus nigra) is a species of poplar in the cottonwood (Aegiros) section of the genus Populus, native to Europe, southwest and central Asia, and northwest Africa.
Diagnostic mammography involves additional views of the breast beyond the two views typically taken with screening mammography.
Diagnostic mammography is performed when a woman presents with breast changes (e.g. lumps, pain, nipple discharge, etc) or when an abnormality is detected on a screening mammogram.
A thiol-containing non-essential amino acid that is oxidized to form CYSTINE.
Dextromethorphan (DM or DXM) is an antitussive drug that is found in many over-the-counter cold and cough preparations, usually in the form of dextromethorphan hydrobromide.
It is also used as a recreational drug.
The cultivated Eggplant, Solanum melongena, is a species of considerable economic importance in many tropical and subtropical parts of the world (1).
Eggplant is native to India or Africa.
It spread eastward clear to Japan, and was introduced to Europe as early as the 13th century AD.
From there it spread early to North and South America.
The most important countries of production are China, Turkey, Japan, Egypt and Syria.
It is often called "the poor man's meat", as it is rich in nutrients.
Aubergine can induce symptoms of food allergy in sensitised individuals.
But food allergy to ingesting the fruit of this plant is uncommon; reactions have been attributed to cross-reactivity with Tomato and grass pollen allergens in 1 individual, and with Parietaria pollen allergen in 5 cases
Lipoprotein associated phospholipase A2 (Lp-PLA2) is an enzyme currently being evaluated to assist in risk factor assessment of cardiovascular disease.
This biomarker was previously known as platelet-activating factor acetylhydrolase (PAF-AH) and has two biological functions.
One function is that Lp-PLA2 inactivates an important proinflammatory mediator known as platelet-activating factor (PAF).
The other function of Lp-PLA2 is that is oxidatively hydrolyzes modified polyunsaturated fatty acids resulting in the chemical compounds lysophosphatidylcholine (LysoPC) and oxidized nonesterified fatty acids (OxNEFA).
OxNEFA has powerful monocyte chemotactic activity.
LysoPC increase inflammatory mediators such as cytokines, adhesion molecules and the chemotactic mediator MCP-1.
LpPLA2 is positively associated with coronary disease but does not improve cardiovascular risk assessment over the traditional biomarkers.
LpPLA2 has been more useful for assessing patients with a borderline risk than traditional biomarkers.
LpPLA2 has been especially helpful when used to measure cardiac risk on patients with metabolic syndrome or diabetes.
There is some speculation that LpPLA2 may eventually be used to monitor treatment efficacy.
Future risk assessments for coronary disease will likely include multiple combinations of cardiac risk markers.
Gad c 1 is a 12.3 kDa parvalbumin and a major cod allergen.
Inositol (formula C6H12O6 or (-CHOH-)6), or hexahydroxycyclohexane, is a sixfold alcohol (polyol) of cyclohexane.
It exists in nine possible stereoisomers, of which the most prominent is free inositol, or myo-Inositol.
Myo-inositol is incorporated into phosphoinositides and inositol phosphates, playing an important role as the structural basis for a number of secondary messengers in eukaryotic cells.
Inositol supplements have been tested as a pharmacological intervention for a variety of conditions including bulimia, depression, panic disorder and obsessive compulsive disorder (OCD).
Increased levels of myo-inositol in urine have been reported in diabetics (both insulin-dependent and non-insulin-dependent).
Quantification of myo-inositol is possible by various methods, including enzymatic assays, magnetic resonance spectroscopy and gas chromatography/mass spectrometry (GC-MS).
Camellia sinensis L. (formerly Thea sinensis) is an evergreen Asiatic shrub of the THEACEAE family.
The infusion of leaves of this plant is used as Oriental TEA which contains CAFFEINE; THEOPHYLLINE; and epigallocatechin gallate.
Lathosterol is a lipid found in the cell membranes of all body tissues and is used as an indicator of whole-body cholesterol synthesis.
Plasma lathosterol levels are significantly elevated in patients with disorders of bile acid synthesis.
Determination of 7-lathosterol and 8-lathosterol is used in diagnosis and treatment of Cerebrotendinous Xantomatosis (CTX).
Alpha pyrrolidinovalerophenone (α-PVP) is a synthetic cathinone (also known as a bath salt) that has been identified as a substance of abuse.
A recent study has shown that after acute exposure to α-PVP, transient neuropsychiatric impacts were present, followed by physiological effects characteristic of the sympathetic nervous system, increased creatinine phospokinase and lactic acid, acid-base balance disorders and coagulopathy.
The CSF3R (colony stimulating factor 3 receptor) gene is located on chromosome 1 at 1p34.3.
The protein encoded by this gene is the receptor for colony stimulating factor 3, a cytokine that controls the production, differentiation, and function of granulocytes.
The encoded protein, which is a member of the family of cytokine receptors, may also function in some cell surface adhesion or recognition processes.
Mutations in this gene are a cause of Kostmann syndrome, also known as severe congenital neutropenia.
Mutations in two functional domains of CSF3R, exon 14 (the membrane proximal region) and exon 17 (the cytoplasmic region), have been found to be associated with myeloid neoplasms, including atypical chronic myeloid leukemia and chronic neutrophilic leukemia .
DRB1*1501 is positively associated with Goodpasture syndrome, juvenile rheumatoid arthritis, allergic bronchopulmonary aspergillosis, multiple sclerosis, systemic lupus erythematosus, cervical cancer (human papillomavirus infection), and Sjogren's syndrome associated with systemic lupus erythematosus.
Furoylglycine is an acyl glycine.
Acyl glycines are normally minor metabolites of fatty acids.
However, the excretion of certain acyl glycines is increased in several inborn errors of metabolism.
In certain cases the measurement of these metabolites in body fluids can be used to diagnose disorders associated with mitochondrial fatty acid beta-oxidation.
Acyl glycines are produced through the action of glycine N-acyltransferase which is an enzyme that catalyzes the chemical reaction:.
acyl-CoA + glycine < -- > CoA + N-acylglycine.
Dietary studies show that 2-Furoylglycine precursors are of exogenous origin.
Most probably from furan derivatives found in food prepared by strong heating.
This may explain the absence of 2-furoylglycine in urine of breastfed children.
Lactoglobulin is the major whey protein of cow 's milk (~3 gl), and is also present in many other mammalian species; a notable exception being humans.
Mephedrone, also known as 4-methylmethcathinone (4-MMC), or 4-methylephedrone, is a synthetic stimulant and entactogen drug of the amphetamine and cathinone classes.
Slang names include M4, meph, drone, and MCAT.
It comes in the form of tablets or a powder, which users can swallow, snort or inject, producing similar effects to MDMA, amphetamines, and cocaine.
Mephedrone was first made illegal in Israel in 2008, followed by Sweden later that year.
In 2010, it was made illegal in many European countries and in December 2010, the EU ruled it illegal.
In Australia, New Zealand and the USA, it is considered an analog of other illegal drugs and can be controlled by laws similar to the Federal Analog Act.
In September 2011, the USA temporarily classified mephedrone as illegal, in effect from October 2011.
HPV type 6 can cause benign or low-grade cervical cell abnormalities, genital warts and laryngeal papillomas.
Swordfish is an enormous mackerel-like fish representing the only member of the family Xiphidae.
A patient with clinical sensitivity to swordfish had IgE antibodies to a 25 kD protein but to no other protein from 10 fish species tested.
The allergen may be specific for the family Xiphidae.
We reviewed the major allergy testing manufacturers and found that they all use the same allergen code, e1, but use different test descriptions (dander, epithelium, hair)
The GALT gene is located on chromosome 9p13.3 and encodes galactose-1-phosphate uridyl transferase, an enzyme that plays a key role in galactose metabolism.
GALT mutations are associated with decreased or absent enzymatic activity, which results in the disease galactosemia.
Three common mutations are p.Gln188Arg, p.Lys285Asn, and p.Ser135Leu.
Classic galactosemia presents in the newborn period with vomiting, jaundice, hypoglycemia, hepatosplenomegaly, hypotonia and sepsis.
If not treated immediately by removing lactose from the diet, the disease can be associated with severe disability or death.
Polychromasia occurs when there is an abnormally high number of red blood cells found in the bloodstream as a result of being prematurely released from the bone marrow.
Polychromatophilic red cells are larger and younger than mature red cells and appear blue-gray on a blood smear.
Polychromasia is usually a sign of bone marrow stress due to blood loss or other conditions.
Panel for the quantitation of immunoglobin heavy and light chain absolute values and their ratios.
The AGXT gene (alanine-glyoxylate aminotransferase) is located on chromosome 2q37.3.
This gene is expressed only in the liver and the encoded protein is localized mostly in the peroxisomes, where it is involved in glyoxylate detoxification.
Mutations in this gene, some of which alter subcellular targetting, have been associated with type I primary hyperoxaluria.
NK2 homeobox 1 (NKX2-1), also known as thyroid transcription factor 1 (TTF-1), is a protein which in humans is encoded by the NKX2-1 gene.
Thyroid transcription factor-1 (TTF-1) is a protein that regulates transcription of genes specific for the thyroid, lung, and diencephalon.
It is also known as thyroid specific enhancer binding protein.
It is used in anatomic pathology as a marker to determine if a tumor arises from the lung or thyroid.
TTF-1 positive cells are found in the lung as type II pneumocytes and Clara cells.
In the thyroid, follicular and parafollicular cells are also positive for TTF-1.
For lung cancers, adenocarcinomas are usually positive, while squamous cell carcinomas and large cell carcinomas are rarely positive.
Small cell carcinomas (of any primary site) are usually positive.
TTF1 is more than merely a clinical marker of lung adenocarcinoma.
It plays an active role in sustaining lung cancer cells in view of the experimental observation that it is mutated in lung cancer.
TTF-1 staining is often positive in pulmonary adenocarcinomas, large cell carcinomas, small-cell lung carcinomas, neuroendocrine tumors other than small-cell lung carcinomas and extrapulmonary small-cell carcinomas.
It is also positive in thyroid cancers and is used for monitoring for metastasis and recurrence.
Rare phenotype characterized by intermediate strength of both I and i Ag on the red cells
Ecstasy is a commonly used street-name for MDMA (3,4-methylenedioxymethamphetamine).
MDMA is an illegal drug with characteristics of both stimulants and hallucinogens.
In the mid 1980s MDMA was being used at all night dance parties, now referred to as "raves.
In 1985, the US Drug Enforcement Administration moved the drug to Schedule 1 status with no accepted medical use.
Porphyrins build up among patients with hereditary enzyme disorders known as porphyrias.
Porphyrias affect the heme biosynthetic pathway and cause increased urine excretion of porphyrinogens, by-products known as porphyrins and porphyrinogen precursors-including delta aminolevulinic acid (ALA) and porphobilinogen (PBG).
Coproporphyrin and uroporphyrin excretion in urine is markedly increased during acute attacks of hereditary coproporphyria.
Increased uroporphyrinogen, uroporphyrin, and coproporphyrin excretion occurs in porphyria cutanea tarda.
Increased coproporphyrin excretion alone lacks specificity and sensitivity for lead testing and is likely to occur secondary to other diseases.
Information from LOINC partner 1 and Jacobs and DeMott Laboratory Test Handbook, 5th edition, DS Jacobs, WR DeMott and DK Oxley, 2001.
One of the long-acting synthetic ANTIDIARRHEALS; it is not significantly absorbed from the gut, and has no effect on the adrenergic system or central nervous system, but may antagonize histamine and interfere with acetylcholine release locally.
Chorion is the outer membrane of the amniotic sac.
In twin pregnancy, the fetuses can share a chorion (monochorionic) or have separate chorions (dichorionic).
Tyrosine is an aromatic amino acid and its urine levels rise in tyrosinemia, TNT (Transient Neonatal Tyrosinemia), cystinosis, hartnup disease, methionine malabsorption, and alkaptonuria.
Methylephedrine has a molecular weight of 179.3 amu.
It is legitimately used for its moderate CNS stimulant effects, and is often found in diet pills.
Although not controlled, it is closely monitored as a List I chemical due to its occasional use in illicit methamphetamine production (that is, to produce dimethylamphetamine).
It again appears that the methylephedrine was added to the cocaine at the final processing stage of converting cocaine base to cocaine HCl.
A greenish-yellow, diatomic gas that is a member of the halogen family of elements.
It has the atomic symbol Cl, atomic number 17, and atomic weight 70.906.
It is a powerful irritant that can cause fatal pulmonary edema.
Chlorine is used in manufacturing, as a reagent in synthetic chemistry, for water purification, and in the production of chlorinated lime, which is used in fabric bleaching.
The CPS1 gene (cytochrome P450, family 21, subfamily A, polypeptide 2) is located on chromosome 6p21.3.
This gene encodes a member of the cytochrome P450 superfamily of enzymes.
The cytochrome P450 proteins are monooxygenases which catalyze many reactions involved in drug metabolism and synthesis of cholesterol, steroids and other lipids.
This protein localizes to the endoplasmic reticulum and hydroxylates steroids at the 21 position.
Its activity is required for the synthesis of steroid hormones including cortisol and aldosterone.
Mutations in this gene cause congenital adrenal hyperplasia.
A related pseudogene is located near this gene; gene conversion events involving the functional gene and the pseudogene are thought to account for many cases of steroid 21-hydroxylase deficiency.
Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
Antibacterial, potentially toxic, used to treat certain skin diseases.
Sunflower seeds are an important animal food, a major source of vegetable oil, are frequently added to bread, and fed to cage birds.
Sunflower seed used as animal food may be an occupational risk for workers processing the material.
A species of gram-negative bacteria in the genus Haemophilus, causing respiratory tract disease in CHICKENS known as infectious coryza.
Also known as firebush, is a weed that produces large amounts of pollen which may induce hayfever, asthma, and conjunctivitis in sensitised patients.
Kochia is native to southern and eastern Russia, Europe, and Asia, and has nautralised across the northern Unites States.
Kochia becomes a tumbleweed when mature.
Arbovirus is a term used to refer to a group of viruses that are transmitted by arthropod vectors.
The word arbovirus is an acronym (ARthropod-BOrne viruses).
Some arboviruses are able to cause emergent disease.
Many arboviruses (such as African Swine Fever virus) do not normally infect humans or if so, cause only mild and transient infections characterized by fever, headache and rash.
Others of this group however can cause epidemic disease and severe infections such as fulminant meningitis, encephalitis, meningoencephalitis, or viral hemorrhagic fever that can be fatal.
Apramycin is an aminoglycoside antibiotic that is used in the treatment of colibacillosis and salmonellosis in calve, bacterial enteritis in pigs, colibacillosis in lambs and Escherichia coli septicaemia in poultry.
Translocations of the immunoglobulin heavy chain (IgH) gene at 14q32 are routinely present in patients with B lymphoid malignancies and is one of the most common mutations in patients with multiple myeloma (MM).
The t(14;20)(q32;q12) translocation may cause the deregulation of existing oncogenes or produce new hybrid genes with altered characteristics.
The t(14;20) translocation is detected in very early stages of disease, indicating it may play a role in instigating its development.
IgH translocations increase as the disease progresses.
The t(14q32) translocation is present in 74% of patients with MM and in 85% of patients with plasma cell leukemia.
A species of STREPTOCOCCUS isolated from pigs.
It is a pathogen of swine but rarely occurs in humans.
Panton and Valentine leucocidin (PVL) is a synergohymenotropic toxin produced by Staphylococcus aureus (SA).
Two secretory proteins Luks-PV and LukF-PV synergistically form holes in the membranes of host immune cells.
These secretory proteins are cotranscibed genes of a prophage that has become integrated in the SA chromosome.
PVL is primarily a community-acquired methicillin-resistant SA infection.
It is differentiated from nosocomial MRSA by not exhibiting multidrug resistance and by its inclusion of the type IV staphylococcal chromosome cassette element (SCCmec type IV).
Hemoglobin (Hb) Hope is a beta globin chain variant, that is rarely reported, and can occur in diverse geographic locations and in individuals of diverse ethnicities.
This variant Hb is mildly unstable and has reduced oxygen affinity, but is generally harmless clinically.
According to previous reports, genetic interaction of Hb Hope with other beta globin mutations, i.e. Hb S, Hb C and Hb E, have been associated with clinically mild anemia.
But others have demonstrated that Hb Hope in association with a globin mutation can cause severe microcytic anemia.
Methylhippuric acid is an acyl glycine with three isomers: meta-, ortho-, and para-methylhippurate.
Acyl glycines are normally minor metabolites of fatty acids.
However, the excretion of certain acyl glycines is increased in several inborn errors of metabolism.
In certain cases the measurement of these metabolites in body fluids can be used to diagnose disorders associated with mitochondrial fatty acid beta-oxidation.
Acyl glycines are produced through the action of glycine N-acyltransferase which is an enzyme that catalyzes the chemical reaction: acyl-CoA + glycine < -- > CoA + N-acylglycine.
Methylhippuric acid is a metabolite of xylene which is an aromatic hydrocarbon widely used as a solvant.
Its level can be measured in urine of workers exposed to xylene .
The TORCH panel screens for antibodies to Toxoplasmosis, Rubella, Cytomegalovirus and Herpes simplex virus which can cause birth defects in babies if the mother contracts the infection duriing pregnancy.
Enflurane is a commonly used organic anesthetic.
Used in combination with nitrous oxide, it is a very effective anesthetic.
The dosage of Enflurane being administered is set and monitored throughout general anesthesia.
Distance from menton to the Anterior Nasal Spine
Synthetic cannabinoids interact with the same brain receptors as THC (the active drug present in marijuana) and have been demonstrated to produce similar effects.
The drug is typically sprayed on botanical material and smoked, although it can be ingested in liquid or powder form.
Products containing this drug are sold under a wide variety of names including (but not limited to)
Spice, Potpourri, Smoke, K2, Zombie, Kush, and Cloud 10.
A rare metal element with a blue-gray appearance and atomic symbol Ge, atomic number 32, and atomic weight 72.59.
There is cross-protection between types 6 & 7
Beta globulins are a group of globular proteins in plasma that are more mobile in alkaline or electrically charged solutions than gamma globulins, but less mobile than alpha globulins.
Examples of beta globulins include: beta 2-microglobulin, plasminogen, angiostatins, properdin, sex hormone-binding globulin, transferrin.
A metallic element with the atomic symbol V, atomic number 23, and atomic weight 50.94.
It is used in the manufacture of vanadium steel.
Prolonged exposure can lead to chronic intoxication caused by absorption usually via the lungs.
A genus of nematodes of the superfamily ASCARIDOIDEA.
Its organisms are found in the stomachs of marine animals and birds.
Human infection occurs by ingestion of raw fish that contain larvae.
Eosinophils are the cells chiefly responsible for producing the inflammation associated with asthma.
When eosinophils in the airway are activated, they undergo degranulation causing airway epithelial damage.
This can lead to chronic inflammatory disease of the airway.
Asthmatic patients with eosinophilic inflammation have elevated levels of ECP in serum and other body fluids such as bronchial alveolar fluid and (induced) sputum.
A high level of serum ECP indicates inflammation, which is a risk factor for asthmatic patients.
Asthma therapy consists of suppressing chronic and persistent airway inflammation.
Measuring ECP in a serum sample is an objective and direct way of estimating the severity of the airway inflammation and following the course of the disease.
ECP serum measurements can be used: •For monitoring inflammation in asthma •For guiding corticosteroid treatment in asthma •To find non-compliant patients
Roxithromycin is a semi-synthetic macrolide antibiotic.
It is used to treat respiratory tract, urinary and soft tissue infections.
Roxithromycin is derived from erythromycin, containing the same 14-membered lactone ring.
However, an N-oxime side chain is attached to the lactone ring.
Roxithromycin is available under several brandnames, for example Surlid, Rulide, Biaxsig, Roxar and Roximycin.
Food allergen mix 77 (fx77) contains kiwi, cashew nut, hazelnut, tomato and sesame seed IgE antibodies.
Testing for IgE antibodies may be used to help diagnose an allergic disease or the cause of an anaphylactic episode in a patient.
High levels of alpha-aminodipic acid may indicate inhibition of lysine metabolism and decreased amine group transfer in the tissues.
The transamination conversion of a-Aminodipic acid to a-Ketoadipic acid may be at fault.
Information from Metamatrix Clinical Laboratory 2006 12 01.
The TNM pathologic stage as recorded by the ambulatory healthcare provider (physician), provides detailed site-specific information on the progression of disease for the cancer or tumor and is based on information acquired before treatment and modified by the additional evidence acquired during and from surgery, particularly from pathologic examination of resected tissues.
Lecithin cholesterol acyltransferase deficiency (LCAT) deficiency is a disorder of lipoprotein metabolism.
LCAT catalyzes the formation of cholesterol esters in lipoproteins.
The disease has two forms: 1) familial LCAT deficiency in which there is complete LCAT deficiency and 2) fish eye disease in which there is a partial deficiency.
Both are autosomal recessive disorders caused by mutations of the LCAT gene located on chromosome 16q22.
Hydromorphone is an opioid and part of a large class of medications used to treat acute and chronic pain and manage opioid abuse and dependence.
It is metabolized in the liver to hydromorphone-3-glucuronide (H3G, ~40%), dihydroisomorphine (~ 1%), dihydromorphine (~.1%) as well as trace amounts of hydromorphone-3-sulfate, norhydromorphone, and nordihydroisomorphone.
Hydromorphone and its metabolites are excreted from the kidney and can be detected in urine to monitor compliance or identify illicit opioid drug use.
Nuclear medicine brain death scans assess the blood flow to the brain.
The absence of radionuclide activity within the brain is consistent with the diagnosis of brain death but is not in itself sufficient to make the diagnosis.
Scintigraphy and EEG are considered confirmatory tests for brain death, while clinical exam and 4-vessel cerebral angriography are considered diagnostic.
Large amount of aspartylglycosamine appears in patients with aspartylglycosaminuria, which is a metabolic disorder associated with decreased activity of aspartylglycosamine amido hydrolase.
Heat-labile Vi (virulance) is a surface polysaccharide capsular antigen found in Salmonella typhi and some other Salmonella strains.
Premature coronary artery disease can be defined as having a myocardial infarction (heart attack) before age 55 for men or before age 65 for women.
CD22 or cluster of differentiation-22, is a molecule belonging to the SIGLEC family of lectins.
Generally speaking, CD22 is a regulatory molecule that prevents the overactivation of the immune system and the development of autoimmune diseases.
CD22 is a sugar binding transmembrane protein, which specifically binds sialic acid with an immunoglobulin (Ig) domain located at its N-terminus.
The presence of Ig domains makes CD22 a member of the immunoglobulin superfamily.
CD22 functions as an inhibitory receptor for B cell receptor (BCR) signalling.
EBV (Epstein-Barr virus) is known to bind to the B lymphocyte via the CD22 receptor.
Fraxinus latifolia (Oregon ash) is a member of the ash genus Fraxinus, native to western North America on the west side of the Cascade Range from southwestern British Columbia south through western Washington and western Oregon to central California.
Mass spectrometry of transthyretin typically results in one peak.
However, patients with transthyretin-associated familial amyloidosis have two transthyretin peaks with different masses due to a structural change in the protein that causes it to be unstable.
Antibodies to the platelet derived growth factor receptor (PDGFR) are a marker of systemic sclerosis.
Anti-PDGFR antibodies activate the PDGFR and stimulate production of reactive oxygen species (ROS) and collagen.
In contrast to normal PDGF receptor activation, which is typically short-lived, PDGFR antibodies cause persistent activation and therefore prolonged stimulation of ROS production and collagen overproduction, which leads to fibrosis.
Minor Determinant Mixture (MDM) contains allergens for patients who are not only sensitized for the major determinant (PPL) of penicillin allergy
The Insulin-like Growth Factor 1 (IGF-1) Receptor is a transmembrane receptor that is activated by IGF-1 and by the related growth factor IGF-2.
It belongs to the large class of tyrosine kinase receptors.
This receptor mediates the effects of IGF-1, which is a polypeptide protein hormone similar in molecular structure to insulin.
IGF-1 plays an important role in growth and continues to have anabolic effects in adults - meaning that it can induce hypertrophy of skeletal muscle and other target tissues.
Mice lacking the IGF-1 receptor die late in development, and show a dramatic reduction in body mass, testifying to the strong growth-promoting effect of this receptor.
Mice carrying only one functional copy of igf1r are normal, but exhibit a ~15% decrease in body mass.
The IGF-1R is implicated in several cancers, including both breast and prostate cancer.
In some instances its anti-apoptotic properties allow cancerous cells to resist the cytotoxic properties of chemotheraputic drugs or radiotherapy.
In breast cancer, where EGFR inhibitors such as erlotinib are being used to inhibit the EGFR signaling pathway, IGF-1R confers resistance by forming one half of a heterodimer (see the description of EGFR signal transduction in the erlotinib page), allowing EGFR signaling to resume in the presence of a suitable inhibitor.
This process is referred to as crosstalk between EGFR and IGF-1R. It is further implicated in breast cancer by increasing the metastatic potential of the original tumour by inferring the ability to promote vascularisation.
Increased levels of the IGF-IR are expressed in the majority of primary and metastatic prostate cancer patient tumors.
Evidence suggests that IGF-IR signaling is required for survival and growth when prostate cancer cells progress to androgen independence.
In addition, when immortalized prostate cancer cells mimicking advanced disease are treated with the IGF-1R ligand, IGF-1, the cells become more motile.
Epidermophyton floccosum is an anthropophilic dermatophyte (preferring humans to other hosts) which can be found world-wide.
The fungus is the only pathogen of the two species comprising genus Epidermophyton.
Hosts of the fungi are humans, wild animals, and domestic animals.
The fungi can cause tinea pedis, tinea cruris, tinea corporis, and onychomycosis.
The infection spreads by contact, especially in gyms and showers.
The fungus may be transmitted between humans and squirrels.
The fungi can usually only infect the nonliving cornified layers of epidermis.
Vassopressin testing aids in diagnosis of urine concentration disorders such as diabetes insipidus, syndrome of inappropriate ADH, psychogenic water intoxication, and syndromes of ectopic ADH production.
Stress can affect ADH release.
ADH must be compared with osmolality results for correct diagnosis.
An organic acid normally found in human urine, in healthy adults and children.
2-Methylglutaric acid is a metabolite of succinic acid, a citric acid cycle intermediate., , ,
Juniperus monosperma (One-seed Juniper) is a species of juniper native to western North America, in the United States in Arizona, New Mexico, southern Colorado, western Oklahoma (Panhandle), and western Texas, and in Mexico in the extreme north of Chihuahua.
A diphenylbutylpiperidine that is effective as an antipsychotic agent and as an alternative to HALOPERIDOL for the suppression of vocal and motor tics in patients with Tourette syndrome.
Although the precise mechanism of action is unknown, blockade of postsynaptic dopamine receptors has been postulated.
(From AMA Drug Evaluations Annual, 1994, p403)
T-2 toxin is a naturally-occurring trichothecene mycotoxin produced by various Fusarium species.
T-2 toxin is the most potent of the trichothecene mycotoxins found in food and animal feed.
It causes acute and chronic toxicity and induces apoptosis in the immune system.
When exposed over long peroids, patient can develop alimentary toxic aleukia (ATA), characterized by initial symptoms of abdominal pain, diarrhea, vomiting.
Within days, they develop fever, chills, myalgias and bone marrow depression.
Enzyme responsible for the production of methionine from homocysteine.
A species of parasitic FUNGI.
This intracellular parasite is found in the BRAIN; HEART; and KIDNEYS of several MAMMALS.
Transmission is probably by ingestion of the spores (SPORES, FUNGAL).
Phosphomannomutase 1 (PMM1) is involved in the synthesis of the GDP-mannose and dolichol-phosphate-mannose required for a number of critical mannosyl transfer reactions.
It is encoded by the PMM1 gene, which is located on chromosome 22q13.
In addition, may be responsible for the degradation of glucose-1,6-bisphosphate in ischemic brain.
Spondylocladium is a mold that is found in moist and damp environment, often found on plants and around window sills and air conditioning ducts.
The Chromosome 17 DNA probe marks the centromeric region of chromosome 17 and is used as an internal control and to account for aneusomy (varying number) of chromosome 17.
AH-8529 and AH-8533 are structurally related to opioids.
They are considered potential drugs of abuse, although at the time of this writing there is little known about their physiological and toxicological properties.
Fusidic acid is an antibiotic used particularly for eye and skin infections.
It works by interfering with bacterial protein synthesis, specifically by preventing the translocation of the elongation factor G (EF-G) from the ribosome, although it works only on gram-positive bacteria such as Staphylococcus aureus, Streptococcus and Corynebacterium minutissimum.
It was first isolated in 1962 from the fungus Fusidium coccineum, and later from Mucor ramannianus and Isaria kogana.
It is delivered as an ointment, a cream, eye drops or in tablet form.
Alpha-1 antitrypsin deficiency is a relatively common autosomal recessive condition.
The most common deficiency alleles in the alpha-1-antitrypsin gene on the protease inhibitor locus are PI*Z and PI*S.
The normal allele is PI*M. Patients homozygous for PI*Z or PI*S or heterozygous PI*Z/PI*S will have decreased alpha-1-antitrypsin levels, with PI*Z/PI*Z having lowest levels of 10-20% of normal.
Patients with PI*Z/PI*Z or PI*S/PI*Z genotypes reportedly have increased risk of childhood liver disease and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease(COPD) and emphysema in adult life.
PI*M/PI*Z patients may have decreased pulmonary function and increased risk for COPD, especially smokers.
The West Nile Virus (WNV) is an arbovirus that was first identified in the West Nile District of Uganda in 1937.
In the fall of 1999, the National Veterinary Services Laboratory (NVLS) isolated WNV in a dead crow in New York City.
is the key method used to diagnosis WNV in clinical settings.
Antibody titers to WNV NS5 are detectable long-term in vivo and can be used to distinguish past infection with WNV from current infection.
RNA is usually undetectable in serum after 13.2 days, but on rare occasions, has been found in serum beyond 40 days.
Treatment of infection with WNV is mostly supportive.
There are no FDA-approved drugs or vaccines available.
A widely used non-cardioselective beta-adrenergic antagonist.
Propranolol is used in the treatment or prevention of many disorders including acute myocardial infarction, arrhythmias, angina pectoris, hypertension, hypertensive emergencies, hyperthyroidism, migraine, pheochromocytoma, menopause, and anxiety.
Isocyanate TDI conjugated to a human serum albumin (HSA) carrier.
Certain protein allergens and chemicals capable of acting as haptens occur at high concentrations in workplace environments.
They represent a significant sensitization risk also for less atopic individuals due to their often high concentration in the air.
A mucoprotein is a glycoprotein composed primarily of mucopolysaccharides.
It can be found in the synovial fluid of the knees.
Acacia is a genus of shrubs and trees belonging to the subfamily Mimosoideae of the family Fabaceae.
Many non-Australian species tend to be thorny, whereas the majority of Australian Acacias are not.
They are pod-bearing, with sap and leaves typically bearing large amounts of tannins and condensed tannins that historically in many species found use as pharmaceuticals and preservatives.
Acacias are also known as thorntrees, whistling thorns or wattles, including the yellow-fever acacia and umbrella acacias.
Until 2005, there were thought to be roughly 1300 species of acacia worldwide, about 960 of them native to Australia, with the remainder spread around the tropical to warm-temperate regions of both hemispheres, including Europe, Africa, southern Asia, and the Americas.
However, the genus was then divided into five, with the name Acacia retained for the Australian species, and most of the species outside Australia divided into Vachellia and Senegalia.
An enzyme that catalyzes the oxidative decarboxylation of coproporphyrinogen III to protoporphyrinogen IX by the conversion of two propionate groups to two vinyl groups.
It is the sixth enzyme in the 8-enzyme biosynthetic pathway of HEME, and is encoded by CPO gene.
Mutations of CPO gene result in HEREDITARY COPROPORPHYRIA.
Acetylene (systematic name: ethyne) is the chemical compound with the formula HC2H.
It is a hydrocarbon and the simplest alkyne.
This colorless gas is widely used as a fuel and a chemical building block.
It is unstable in pure form and thus is usually handled as a solution.
rVes v 5 is a marker for primary sensitization to Vespidae venom, and particularly to Vespinae (wasp and hornet).
Integrin, alpha 3 (antigen CD49C, alpha 3 subunit of VLA-3 receptor), also known as ITGA3 and CD49c, is a human gene.
ITGA3 is an integrin alpha subunit.
It makes up half of the α3β1 integrin duplex.
ITGA3 encodes the integrin alpha 3 chain.
Integrins are heterodimeric integral membrane proteins composed of an alpha chain and a beta chain.
Alpha chain 3 undergoes post-translational cleavage in the extracellular domain to yield disulfide-linked light and heavy chains that join with beta 1 to form an integrin that interacts with many extracellular-matrix proteins.
The alpha 3 beta 1 integrin is known variously as: very late (activation) antigen 3 ('VLA-3'), very common antigen 2 ('VCA-2'), extracellular matrix receptor 1 ('ECMR1'), and galactoprotein b3 ('GAPB3').
An enzyme of the oxidoreductase class that catalyzes the formation of L-TYROSINE, dihydrobiopterin, and water from L-PHENYLALANINE, tetrahydrobiopterin, and oxygen.
Deficiency of this enzyme may cause PHENYLKETONURIAS and PHENYLKETONURIA, MATERNAL. .
Oxycodone is in the opioid drug class and is a potent pain reliever.
Noroxymorphone is a major secondary metabolite of oxycodone.
It is formed after O-demethylation of noroxycodone by CYP2D6 and to a lesser extent by N-demethylation of oxymorphone by Cyp3A4 and 2D6.
Noroxymorphone has minimal analgesic effect when oxycodone is administered orally or systemically.
Noroxymorphone is a powerful agonist to the mu-opioid receptor when oxycodone is administered intrathecally suggesting that noroxymorphone does not readily cross the blood-brain barrier.
Octahedral with "star" or "dumbbell" shape, birefringent.
Usually not clinically significant, but found with the ingestion of high-oxalate foods, renal disease, stones, or ethylene glycol toxicity.
Koontz A. Clinical Significance of Formed Elements in Urine.
The CC genotype is associated with a greater rate of sustained virological response than the TT or CT genotypes.
Chromium is a mineral that humans require in trace amounts, although its mechanisms of action in the body and the amounts needed for optimal health are not well defined.
It is found primarily in two forms: 1) trivalent (chromium 3+), which is biologically active and found in food, and 2) hexavalent (chromium 6+), a toxic form that results from industrial pollution.
Our focus is exclusively on trivalent (3+) chromium.
Chromium is known to enhance the action of insulin.
Chromium also appears to be directly involved in carbohydrate, fat, and protein metabolism, but more research is needed to determine the full range of its roles in the body.
Chromium is widely distributed in the food supply, but most foods provide only small amounts (less than 2 micrograms per serving).
Meat and whole-grain products, as well as some fruits, vegetables, and spices are relatively good sources.
In contrast, foods high in simple sugars (like sucrose and fructose) are low in chromium.
ECM1 is a glycoprotein secreted predominantly by the epididymis into semen23.
It has shown potential as a biomarker for distinguishing between obstructive azoospermia (OA) and non-obstructive azoospermia (NOA)
Placental growth factor is a protein that in humans is encoded by the PGF gene.
Placental growth factor (PGF) is a member of the VEGF (vascular endothelial growth factor) sub-family - a key molecule in angiogenesis and vasculogenesis, in particular during embryogenesis.
Serum levels of PGF and sFlt-1 (soluble fms-like tyrosine kinase-1, also known as soluble VEGF receptor-1) are altered in women with preeclampsia.
A nucleoside antimetabolite antiviral agent that blocks nucleic acid synthesis and is used against both RNA and DNA viruses.
Semisynthetic derivative of erythromycin.
It is concentrated by human phagocytes and is bioactive intracellularly.
While the drug is active against a wide spectrum of pathogens, it is particularly effective in the treatment of respiratory and genital tract infections.
Allergic reactions are rare; however, IgE-mediated reactions have been reported.
Corynebacterium diphtheriae is a pathogenic bacterium that causes diphtheria.
It is also known as the Klebs-Loeffler bacillus, because it was discovered in 1884 by German bacteriologists Edwin Klebs (1834-1912) and Friedrich Loeffler (1852-1915).
C. diphtheriae is a facultative anaerobic Gram positive organism.
It is non-encapsulated, does not sporulate, is immobile, and appears as straight or aggregated curved rods with a length of 1 to 8 µm and width of 0.3 to 0.8 µm.
Many strains of C. diphtheriae produce an exotoxin (molecular weight of 62 KD).
The exotoxin ADP-ribosylates host EF-2 is responsible for the symptoms of diphtheria.
Penicillium brevicompactum, one of the most common indoor airborne fungi, can cause respiratory problems, including asthma.
The architectural pattern of ductal carcinoma in situ (DCIS) describes the growth pattern of the tumor as seen by light microscopy.
Different architectural patterns may be associated with different clinical presentations and extent of disease.
A single tumor may contain multiple growth patterns.
The ACVRL1 gene (activin A receptor type II-like 1) is located on chromosome 12q13.13.
This gene encodes a type I cell-surface receptor for the TGF-beta superfamily of ligands.
It shares with other type I receptors a high degree of similarity in serine-threonine kinase subdomains, a glycine- and serine-rich region (called the GS domain) preceding the kinase domain, and a short C-terminal tail.
The encoded protein, sometimes termed ALK1, shares similar domain structures with other closely related ALK or activin receptor-like kinase proteins that form a subfamily of receptor serine/threonine kinases.
Mutations in this gene are associated with hemorrhagic telangiectasia type 2, also known as Rendu-Osler-Weber syndrome 2.
Enolase, also known as phosphopyruvate dehydratase, is a metalloenzyme responsible for the catalysis of the conversion of 2-phosphoglycerate (2-PG) to phosphoenolpyruvate (PEP), the ninth and penultimate step of glycolysis.
Enolase can also catalyze the reverse reaction, depending on environmental concentrations of substrates.
Enolase is present in all tissues and organisms capable of glycolysis or fermentation.
Calculated based on the concentration of three electrolytes as follows: (NA+)-
Red cells seen in urine with a regular border, which implies a lower UTI source of the cells
The attendant at birth is defined as the individual at the delivery who is responsible for the delivery.
If an intern or nurse-midwife delivers an infant under the supervision of an obstetrician who is present in the delivery room, the obstetrician is to be reported as the attendant.
However, a person who is not physically present at the delivery should not be reported as the attendant.
If the obstetrician is not physically present, then the intern or nurse-midwife is reported as the attendant.
Macrolides characterize a large family of protein synthesis inhibitors.
Macrolides are composed of different sized rings of macrocyclic lactone with one or more deoxy sugar or amino sugar residues attached.
Macrolides act as antibiotics by binding to bacterial 50S ribosomal subunit and interfering with protein synthesis .
Under the microscope, starch grains stained with iodine illuminated from behind with polarized light show a distinctive Maltese cross effect (also known as extinction cross and birefringence).
Hev b 6.01, prohevein, is one of the most important Latex allergens in health care worker latex allergy.
A 206-amino-acid fragment in the alpha chain (672-1663) of C3b.
It is generated when C3b is inactivated (iC3b) and its alpha chain is cleaved by COMPLEMENT FACTOR I into C3c (749-954), and C3dg (955-1303) in the presence COMPLEMENT FACTOR H.
Ubiquitin carboxyl-terminal hydrolase-L1 (UCH-L1) is a protein that is involved in the metabolism of ubiquitin within neurons.
Increases in blood UCH-L1 have been detected in the serum of mild and moderate TBI patients within an hour of injury.
Levels measured within 4 hours of injury were significantly higher in those with TBI lesions on CT than those with a normal intracranial appearance on CT.
Blood levels of UCH-L1 have been demonstrated to be able to discriminate mild TBI patients from patients without head injuries and, similar to GFAP, UCH-L1 levels were much higher in patients who required neurosurgical intervention .
A protease inhibitor and one of the largest plasma proteins.
Increased levels of Alpha-2-Macroglobulin are found in nephrotic syndrome when lower molecular weight proteins are lost and Alpha-2-Macroglobulin is retained because of its large size.
An amine derived by enzymatic decarboxylation of HISTIDINE.
It is a powerful stimulant of gastric secretion, a constrictor of bronchial smooth muscle, a vasodilator, and also a centrally acting neurotransmitter.
The FKBP10 gene (FK506 binding protein 10, 65 kDa) is located on chromosome 17q21.2.
The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the FKBP-type peptidyl-prolyl cis/trans isomerase (PPIase) family.
This protein localizes to the endoplasmic reticulum and acts as a molecular chaperone.
Alternatively spliced variants encoding different isoforms have been reported, but their biological validity has not been determined.
Dientamoeba fragilis is a single-celled parasite found in the gastrointestinal tract of some humans, pigs and gorillas.
It causes gastrointestinal upset in some people, but not in others.
It is an important cause of travellers diarhoea, chronic diarhoea, fatigue and in children, failure to thrive.
Duloxetine belongs to a group of medicines known as selective serotonin and norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SSNRIs).
These medicines are thought to work by increasing the activity of chemicals called serotonin and norepinephrine in the brain.
Duloxetine is used to treat depression and anxiety.
It is also used for pain caused by nerve damage associated with diabetes (diabetic peripheral neuropathy).
Duloxetine is also used to treat fibromyalgia (muscle pain and stiffness) and chronic (long-lasting) pain that is related to muscles and bones.
The large Pecan tree, native to and very common in southern and especially south-eastern North America, is important for its timber and edible nuts.
The Pecan nut was a major food source for the American Indians for thousands of years.
IgE-mediated allergy to foods containing Pecan nuts is common.
Pecan nut allergy frequently has an onset in the first few years of life and generally persists, accounting for severe and potentially fatal allergic reactions
A bacterium which is one of the etiologic agents of bacillary dysentery (DYSENTERY, BACILLARY) and sometimes of infantile gastroenteritis.
Cauliflower is a cool-season annual, coming in white (the most popular and readily available), lime green and purple varieties.
On clusters of stalks are thousands of aborted, malformed flower buds that have stopped developing in the bud stage.
The entire floret portion (called the "curd") is edible.
The green leaves at the base are also edible.
Anecdotal evidence suggests that Cauliflower can uncommonly induce symptoms of food allergy in sensitised individuals; however, few studies have been reported to date
Carbophenothion is a yellow-brown liquid organophosphate and cholinesterase inhibitor.
It is used to treat vegetables, fruits, nuts, ornamental plants, and forestry sites for insects, mites, and ticks.
It has been established that carbophenothion has a high degree of oral toxicity, but too few studies have been performed to establish toxic levels and symptoms of acute or chronic exposure, whether it's a human carcinogen, and whether it is a teratogen.
Carbophenothion is extremely toxic to freshwater fish, freshwater invertebrates, and marine and estuarine organisms.
Hypochromia (as in hypochromic anemia) is an abnormal decrease in the hemoglobin content of the erythrocytes and microscopically appears as increasing size in the RBC zone of central pallor.
Listeria are gram-positive, non-spore forming, intracellular, facultative anaerobic bacilli that cause outbreaks of foodborne disease across the world.
It is broadly present in plants, soil, and surface water, but has also been found in silage, sewage, slaughterhouse waste, milk of normal and mastitic cows, and human and animal feces.
Listeria has also been identified in cattle, sheep, goats, and poultry.
The majority of outbreaks of infections in humans are caused by Listeria monocytogenes.
Most infections by Listeria sp occur in patients with pre-disposing conditions including neoplastic disease, immunosuppression, pregnancy, extreme age, diabetes mellitus, alcoholism, cardiovascular and renal collagen diseases, and hemodialysis failure.
The Listeria serovars 1/2a, 1/2b, and 4 are those most often associated with infection by Listeria.
Mezlocillin is a broad-spectrum penicillin antibiotic.
It is active against both Gram-negative and some Gram-positive bacteria.
Alanyl-Proline is a dipeptide composed of alanine and proline.
It is an incomplete breakdown product of protein digestion or protein catabolism.
Some dipeptides are known to have physiological or cell-signaling effects although most are simply short-lived intermediates on their way to specific amino acid degradation pathways following further proteolysis.
This dipeptide has not yet been identified in human tissues or biofluids and so it is classified as an 'Expected' metabolite.
Chlordane is a colorless or amber-colored liquid organochlorine insecticide.
Because chlordane is a likely human carcinogen, its application to soil in the United States was halted in April, 1988.
Chlordane may now be used only to treat fire ants in power transformers.
Chlordane is considered moderately to highly toxic when in contact or absorbed by the eyes and skins, inhaled, or ingested.
Extreme exposure to chlordane can lead to symptoms of poisoning including nausea, vomiting and gut pain followed by convulsions.
Early signs of exposure include agitation or excitation, but may be followed by depression, loss of coordination, fatigue, and confusion.
Individuals who are chronically exposed to chlordane may show signs of jaundice.
Chlordane damages blood vessels, kidneys and can lead to aplastic anemia and leukemia.
Chlordane is highly poisonous to freshwater invertebrates and fish.
It does bioaccumulate in bacteria and in marine and freshwater fish.
Chlordane is extremely toxic to bees and earthworms.
Chlordane is broken down when heated into poisonous gases including phosgene, toxic and corrosive fumes of chlorine, and oxides of carbon.
It may remain in contaminated soil for up to 20 years.
The SLC40A1 gene (solute carrier family 40 (iron-regulated transporter), member 1) is located on chromosome 2q32.
The protein encoded by this gene is a cell membrane protein that may be involved in iron export from duodenal epithelial cells.
Defects in this gene are a cause of hemochromatosis type 4 (HFE4).
The genus Artocarpus contains A. altilis (Breadfruit) and A. heterophyllus (Jack fruit).
The Jack fruit is a tropical fruit which belongs to the Moraceae family (Mulberry) and is cultivated at low elevations throughout Southeast Asia.
It is grown to a limited extent in Queensland, Mauritius, the Pacific Islands, Brazil and Surinam.
In Africa, it is often planted in Kenya, Uganda and Tanzania.
Anecdotal evidence suggests that Jack fruit can occasionally induce symptoms of food allergy in sensitised individuals; however, few studies have been reported to date.
Increased consumption of this fruit will result in a rise in allergic reactions.
A species of anaerobic, gram-positive, rod-shaped bacteria in the family Clostridiaceae that produces proteins with characteristic neurotoxicity.
It is the etiologic agent of BOTULISM in humans, wild fowl, HORSES; and CATTLE.
Seven subtypes (sometimes called antigenic types, or strains) exist, each producing a different botulinum toxin (BOTULINUM TOXINS).
The organism and its spores are widely distributed in nature.
Marek's disease virus (MDV) is the causative agent in Marek's disease, an neoplastic viral disease seen in chickens.
Occasionally misdiagnosed as an abtissue pathology, this cancer virus is a herpes virus of the herpes subfamily.
Viruses related to MDV cause tumors and disease in turkey and other avian species.
The related turkey virus is known as Herpes virus of Turkey, or HVT.
A zinc metalloproteinase, CD13, also known as aminopeptidase N, which is found naturally on myelomonocytic cells from early differentiation through maturity; usually present on acute myeloid leukemia blasts and rarely found in some forms of lymphoma and lymphocytic leukemia.
The interRAI Emergency Screener for Psychiatry (ESP) is a short screening tool for acute mental health emergency screening with a 24-hour observation period.
The interRAI ESP is compatible with the interRAI MH and interRAI CMH.
It can be used in hospital settings, emergency departments and mobile crisis teams.
This ESP has additional response categories focusing on the immediate presence of indicators relevant to risk appraisal and care planning related to safety (for example, harm to self, others).
The interRAI ESP also provides decision support for placement and bed utilization.
Francisella is a genus of pathogenic, Gram-negative bacteria.
They are small coccobacillary or rod-shaped, non-motile organisms, which are also facultative intracellular parasites of macrophages.
Strict aerobes, Francisella colonies bear a morphological resemblance to those of the genus Brucella.
Mycobacterium pncA region gene mutation for PZA resistance
The distance from the embrasure of the lower central incisor to the Soft tissue pogonion, perpendicular to the Frankfort horizontal plane
Anabolic steroids, or anabolic-androgenic steroids (AAS), are a class of steroid hormones related to the hormone testosterone.
They increase protein synthesis within cells, which results in the buildup of cellular tissue (anabolism), especially in muscles.
Anabolic steroids also have androgenic and virilizing properties, including the development and maintenance of masculine characteristics such as the growth of the vocal cords and body hair.
The word anabolic comes from the Greek anabolein, "to build up", and the word androgenic from the Greek andros, "man" + genein, "to produce".
In a study of asthmatic patients, 20% (children) and 8.6% (adults) were found to have IgE-mediated allergy to pork.
Occupational dermatitis after contact with pork meat has been reported.
Entecavir (abbreviated ETV) is an oral antiviral drug used in the treatment of hepatitis B infection.
It is marketed under the trade names Baraclude (BMS) and Entaliv (DRL).
It is a nucleoside analog (more specifically, a guanosine analogue) that inhibits reverse transcription, DNA replication and transcription in the viral replication process.
Cobalt is a chemical element used to manufacture hard metal alloys, glass, paints and fertilizers.
It is also an essential element supplied through dietary intake.
High levels of cobalt in patients due to toxic ingestion or occupational exposure can cause erythrocytosis, cardiomyopathy, allergic dermatitis, pulmonary fibrosis, cough and dyspnea.
Veterinary Medicine: Low levels of cobalt are known to cause anemia in pigs.
Daily doses of cobalt sulphate can induce myocardial damage in pigs, but this can be prevented by intramuscular administration of sodium selenite and alpha-tocopherol on previous day.
Nitisinone (brand name Orfadin) is a hydroxyphenyl-pyruvate dioxygenase inhibitor indicated as an adjunct to dietary restriction of tyrosine and phenylalanine in the treatment of hereditary tyrosinemia type 1 (HT-1).
Patients with undiagnosed HT-1 usually present with liver failure.
Nitisinone is used to prevent liver failure and treat those with those with chronic liver disease.
Nitisinone is well tolerated and has few adverse effects.
Veterinary Medicine: Sulfadimethoxine is a long-acting sulfonamide antibiotic, and is used to primarily treat coccidial infections in animals.
When combined with ormetoprim, sulfadimethoxine can treat skin and soft tissue infections caused by strains of staphylococcus aureus and escherichia coli and urinary tract infections caused by escherichia coli, staphylococcus, and proteus mirabilis infections.
Chlorobenzene is an aromatic organic compound with the chemical formula C6H5Cl.
This colorless, flammable liquid is a common solvent and a widely used intermediate in the manufacture of other chemicals.
Chlorobenzene is not a naturally occurring compound, but because of its manufacture, can persist in soil for several months, in air for about 3.5 days, and in water for less than one day.
Humans may be exposed to this agent via breathing contaminated air (primarily via occupational exposure), eating contaminated food or water, or by coming into contact with contaminated soil (typically near hazardous waste sites).
it is not considered a widespread environmental contaminant.
Upon entering the body, typically via contaminated air, chlorobenzene is excreted both via the lungs and the urinary system.
Dihydrofolic acid is a folic acid derivative acted upon by dihydrofolate reductase to produce tetrahydrofolic acid.
It interacts with bacteria during cell division.
It is targeted by various drugs to prevent nucleic acid synthesis.
Dihydrofolic acid is also known by the name dihydrofolate - more commonly vitamin B9.
The PAX6 gene (paired box 6) is located on chromosome 11p13.
This gene encodes paired box gene 6, one of many human homologs of the Drosophila melanogaster gene prd.
In addition to the hallmark feature of this gene family, a conserved paired box domain, the encoded protein also contains a homeo box domain.
Both domains are known to bind DNA and function as regulators of gene transcription.
This gene is expressed in the developing nervous system, and in developing eyes.
Mutations in this gene are known to cause ocular disorders such as aniridia and Peter's anomaly.
Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding multiple isoforms have been observed for this gene.
Growth phases refer to the persistent stages of tumor development.
In melanoma, there are two types of growth phases.
Radial growth phase is lateral spread of the melanoma, which leads to a plaque -like appearance.
Vertical growth is growth from the superficial skin surface to deeper layers.
Radial and vertical growth phases are widely considered to be characteristics of melanoma and not used to describe other neoplasms.
Neurofilament light chain (NfL) is a neuronal cytoplasmic protein highly expressed in large myelinated axons.
Its levels increase in CSF and blood proportionally to the degree of axonal damage in a variety of neurological disorders.
The role of NfL as a biomarker has been largely reported in multiple sclerosis (MS), Alzheimer's disease (AD), frontotemporal dementia (FTD), ALS, atypical parkinsonian disorders (APD) and traumatic brain injury (TBI).
In one specific use, serum NfL levels are markedly elevated in atypical parkinsonisms compared to Parkinson disease.
Terpineol is a naturally occurring monoterpene alcohol that has been isolated from a variety of sources such as cajuput oil, pine oil, and petitgrain oil.
There are three isomers, alpha-, beta-, and gamma-terpineol, the last two differing only by the location of the double bond.
A beta-adrenergic antagonist that has been used in the emergency treatment of cardiac arrhythmias.
Fibers with identifiable cross striations are counted microscopically to assess the possibility of malabsorption syndromes, pancreatic exocrine dysfunction, or gastrocolic fistula.
Benzoic acid, C7H6O2 (or C6H5COOH), is a colorless crystalline solid and the simplest aromatic carboxylic acid.
The name derived from gum benzoin, which was for a long time the only source for benzoic acid.
This weak acid and its salts are used as a food preservative.
Benzoic acid is an important precursor for the synthesis of many other organic substances.
A dark-gray, metallic element of widespread distribution but occurring in small amounts; atomic number, 22; atomic weight, 47.90; symbol, Ti; specific gravity, 4.5; used for fixation of fractures.
The CD19+ B cells are 95 kilo Dalton transmembrane glycoproteins and are comprised of a single transmembrane domain, a cytoplasmic C-terminus, and an extracellular N-terminus.
It is a biomarker for normal and neoplastic B cells and for dendritic cells.
CD19+ B cells regulate signaling thresholds by modifying B cell receptor dependent and independent signaling, functioning as a dominant piece of a multimolecular complex that resides on the mature B cell surface.
The concentration of CD19 on the surface of B cells is tightly controlled throughout the cell's development, making it a very valuable biomarker for B cells.
Mature B cells have three times the number of CD19 antigens than immature B cells, and when B cells differentiate into plasma cells, the expression of CD19 is lost.
Patients who lack sufficient CD19 antigens have a lower response to transmembrane signals and weak T cell dependent antibody responses.
CD19 is highly conserved and expressed in most B cell malignancies including acute lymphocytic leukemia, B cell lymphoma, and B cell leukemia.
Efforts are in play to utilize CD19 antibodies for the treatment of lymphoma, leukemia, and autoimmune disorders.
The residual portion of blood that is left after removal of blood cells by centrifugation without prior blood coagulation.
Brivaracetam (BRV) is a synaptic vesicle protein 2A (SV2A) ligand that is a more potent analog of levetiracetam, the first SV2A ligand in a new class of anticonvulsants.
BRV also inhibits neuronal voltage-gated sodium channels.
It is useful for treating partial seizures, photosensitive epilepsy, and focal epilepsy.
It is extensively metabolized into inactive metabolites and does not affect levels of other anticonvulsant medications.
BRV has mild to moderate side effects including fatigue, dizziness, and somnolence, which generally improve with continued therapy.
Lysergic acid diethylamide, abbreviated LSD or LSD-25, also known as lysergide and colloquially as acid, is a semisynthetic psychedelic drug of the ergoline family.
LSD is non-addictive and well known for its psychological effects which can include altered thinking processes, closed and open eye visuals, synaesthesia, an altered sense of time and spiritual experiences, as well as for its key role in 1960s counterculture.
It is used mainly as an entheogen, recreational drug and as an agent in psychedelic therapy.
A cyclic polypeptide antibiotic complex from Streptomyces virginiae, S. loidensis, S. mitakaensis, S. pristina-spiralis, S. ostreogriseus, and others.
It consists of 2 major components, VIRGINIAMYCIN FACTOR M1 and virginiamycin Factor S1.
It is used to treat infections with gram-positive organisms and as a growth promoter in cattle, swine, and poultry.
A reducing sugar is any sugar that, in basic solution, forms an aldehyde or aketone.
This allows the sugar to act as a reducing agent as in the Maillard and Benedict's reactions.
Reducing sugars include glucose, fructose, glyceraldehyde, lactose, arabinose and maltose.
All monosaccharides which contain ketone groups are known as ketoses, and those which contain aldehyde groups are known as aldoses.
Sucrose and trehalose are not reducing sugars.
Plasminogen Activator Inhibitor 1 (PAI-1) is an acute-phase reactant that inhibits plasminogen activators.
Tissue plasminogen activator (tPA) converts inactive plasminogen into plasmin during fibrinolysis.
Plasmin degrades fibrin and is critical to fibrinolysis.
PAI-1 is the primary inhibitor of tPA and limits the production of plasmin, thus controlling fibrinolysis.
Uncontrolled plasmin production can result in increased bleeding.
Increased PAI-1 levels are seen with infection, inflammation, and trauma.
Increased levels are associated with increased risk of acute coronary syndrome.
Patients with chronic and acute coronary artery disease and patients with restenosis following coronary angioplasty may also have increased levels of PAI-1.
Increased PAI-1 levels may decrease the effectiveness of anti-thrombolytic therapy.
Information from LOINC partner 1, 2007 08 20.
Plasminogen activator inhibitor-1 is the principal inhibitor of tissue plasminogen activator (tPA) and urokinase (uPA), the activators of plasminogen and hence fibrinolysis (the physiological breakdown of blood clots).
It is a serine protease inhibitor (serpin) protein (SERPINE1).
The other PAI, plasminogen activator inhibitor-2 (PAI-2) is secreted by the placenta and only present in significant amounts during pregnancy.
In addition, protease nexin acts as an inhibitor of tPA and urokinase.
PAI-1, however, is the main inhibitor of the plasminogen activators.
Factor XIII activity detects factor XIII specific coagulation factor activity.
Factor XIII is an autosomal recessive disorder and is not detectable by the routine coag tests.
Transplant dose of CD34+ and CD3+ cells correlates with outcome in patients with hematological malignancies undergoing peripheral blood stem cell transplants .
Senecavirus A (SVA), formerly Seneca Valley virus (SVV) is a small, non-enveloped picornavirus.
Other members of this family are foot-and-mouth disease virus and swine vesicular disease virus.
SVA is the causative agent of an emerging vesicular disease in swine (2017) and has been associated with neonatal mortality in piglets.
The genomic sequences of 3 United States isolates were determined and found to be 7,266 nucleotides (nt) in length.
The three isolates have similar genomic organization to previously described SVA isolates, namely, 5′ untranslated region (UTR), a single open reading frame (ORF), and 3′ UTR.
The polyprotein translated from the single ORF is predicted to be cleaved into four structural proteins (VP4, VP2, VP3, and VP1) and seven nonstructural proteins (2A, 2B, 2C, 3A, 3B, 3C, and 3D).
SVA has also been idenfied in mice and houseflies which implicates them in playing a role in epidemiology of the disease..
The clinical signs of SVA include coronary, snout and/or oral mucosa band vesicles, acute lameness, anorexia, lethargy and fever.
SVA is present in the United States, Canada, Australia, Italy, New Zealand and Brazil.
Cystinuria is a rare metabolic disorder in which the transport of specific amino acids (cystine, lysine, arginine, and ornithine) in the intestines and kidneys is impaired.
Patients with cystinuria have high levels of cystine in the urine; undissolved (insoluble) cystine can lead to stones in the kidney, bladder, and/or ureter.
High levels of lysine, arginine, and ornithine are also present in the urine of patients with cystinuria, but these substances are more soluble than cystine and do not cause specific symptoms.
In serologic testing, D positive blood is easily identified.
Units which are D negative are often retested to rule out a weaker reaction.
The weak D phenotype (D^u) is characterized by negative reaction with anti-D reagent at immediate spin (IS), negative reaction after 37C incubation, and positive reaction at anti-human globulin (AHG) phase.
Weak D testing is done on all prenatal patients and candidates for Rh immune globulin.
Testing may also be done on Rh negative donors to ensure they are truly D negative as well as Rh negative candidates for transfusion.
Tomato is a vine fruit of the Nightshade family.
Tomatoes were used for food by the Indians of Peru before the arrival of Europeans.
Tomato is the most universally accepted vegetable among all cultural groups, and second only to Potato as a vegetable in world food production.
Tomato is a common cause of symptoms of food allergy in sensitised individuals.
Non-exercise behavior can fall into two categories: sedentary activity and light-intensity activity.
Sedentary activity is defined as lying down, sitting, or expending energy between 1.0-1.5 metabolic equivalents (METs).
Sedentary activity can lead to increased adiposity, unhealthy triglyceride levels, heart issues, and shortened life spans.
By replacing sedentary activity with increased bouts of moderate to vigorous activity, one can counteract the negative impacts of sedentary activity.
Piperacillin/tazobactam is a combination antibiotic containing the extended-spectrum penicillin antibiotic piperacillin and the β-lactamase inhibitor tazobactam.
It is commonly marketed by Neomed under the trade name Tazomed and Wyeth under the trade name Tazocin or Zosyn.
Pensar markets the drug under the trade name 'Ivitaz' .
Phenol red (also known as phenolsulfonphthalein or PSP) is a pH indicator that is frequently used in cell biology laboratories.
Mer a 1 (prolifin) is a major allergen of Annual Mercury, a plant native to Europe.
One of the sickle cell disorders characterized by the presence of both hemoglobin S and hemoglobin C.
It is similar to, but less severe than sickle cell anemia.
Influenza viruses A and B are single-stranded RNA enveloped viruses belonging to the Orthomyxoviridae family.
The symptoms of infection of Influenza A and B include fever, cough, sore throat, rhinorrhea, nasal congestion, headache, myalgia and malaise.
Some patients may experience gastrointestinal symptoms including watery diarrhea, vomiting and abdominal pain.
The influenza viruses spread rapidly in enclosed spaces with a documented rate of infection of 70% following a common source of exposure.
Infection occurs in the respiratory epithelium in both the upper and lower respiratory tract, and the virus can be found in many specimen types, including nasal aspirates, nasal or nasopharyngeal swabs, throat swabs, sputum and tracheal aspirates.
When infection rates reach epidemic proportions, hospitalization of children and elderly patients rises as does the mortality rates of elderly patients.
The respiratory syncytial virus (RSV) is a member of the Paramyxoviridae family and is an enveloped pleomorphic virus.
RSV is spread through contact with respiratory droplets, contact with the patient and contact with contaminated surfaces.
The rate of transmission is affected by outside temperature, humidity and precipitation.
RSV infection spreads faster when the temperature is low and the humidity is high in temperate zones and when rainfall levels are high in tropical climates.
RSV causes severe lower respiratory infections in infants and young children.
Symptoms of RSV infection include cough, low-grade fever and rhinorrhea.
High risk adult populations including patients in residential facilities, those with heart and lung diseases and immunocompromised patients are susceptible to severe RSV infection and significant morbidity.(Manual of Clinical Microbiology, 11th edition, James H. Jorgensen; Karen C. Carroll; Guido Funke; Michael A Pfaller; Marie Louise Landry; Sandra S. Richter; David W. Warnock)
The HNF4A gene (hepatocyte nuclear factor 4, alpha) is located on chromosome 20q13.12.
The protein encoded by this gene is a nuclear transcription factor which binds DNA as a homodimer.
The encoded protein controls the expression of several genes, including hepatocyte nuclear factor 1 alpha, a transcription factor which regulates the expression of several hepatic genes.
This gene may play a role in development of the liver, kidney, and intestines.
Mutations in this gene have been associated with monogenic autosomal dominant non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus type I. Alternative splicing of this gene results in multiple transcript variants encoding several different isoforms.
The influenza A virus (FLUAV) is a common respiratory virus that infects humans as well as birds, horses, seals, dogs, and pigs.
There are eight gene segments that make up the negative single-stranded RNA of the FLUAV.
The gene segments are known as PB1, PB2, PA, NP, HA, NA, M, and NS.
The M gene is the seventh segment and encodes the M1 (matrix protein) and M2 (membrane) proteins.
The M1 protein is located beneath the lipid membrane and functions to give support and strength to the viral envelope.
The M2 transmembrane protein is an ion channel that assists to uncover the virus once it is inside the host cell.
M1 and NP proteins together determine whether the influenza virus is type A, B, or C. M1 brings viral constituents together to the assembly location, playing important roles in the creation of viral particles and in the budding process.
Cytochrome P450 1A2 (CYP1A2)-mediated drug metabolism is highly variable and often based on a patient's genotype.
Genetic testing is performed to identifying patients who are poor, intermediate, extensive, or ultrarapid metabolizers of drugs metabolized by CYP1A2.
The CYP1A2 c.3497G>A polymorphism is associated with decreased activity of the CYP1A2 enzyme.
The APOA1 gene is located on chromosome 11 at position q23.3.
This gene encodes apolipoprotein A-I, which is the major protein component of high density lipoprotein (HDL) in plasma.
The encoded preproprotein is proteolytically processed to generate the mature protein, which promotes cholesterol efflux from tissues to the liver for excretion, and is a cofactor for lecithin cholesterolacyltransferase (LCAT), an enzyme responsible for the formation of most plasma cholesteryl esters.
This gene is closely linked with two other apolipoprotein genes on chromosome 11.
Defects in this gene are associated with HDL deficiencies, including Tangier disease, and with systemic non-neuropathic amyloidosis.
Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants, at least one of which encodes a preproprotein.
Titanium is a chemical element in the periodic table that has the symbol Ti and atomic number 22.
It is a light, strong, lustrous, corrosion -resistant (including resistance to sea water and chlorine) transition metal with a white-silvery-metallic color.
Titanium is used in strong light-weight alloys (most notably with iron and aluminium), and in powdered form to other materials, such as graphite composites.
Its most common compound, titanium dioxide, is used in white pigments.
Examples in which white pigment, consisting of titanium oxide, is used, are correction fluid and commonly used white paint to repaint walls.
It is also used in toothpaste, white road marking paints and in white fireworks.
Substances containing titanium are called titaniferous.
The element occurs in numerous minerals with the main sources being rutile and ilmenite, which are widely distributed over the Earth.
Lutropin is a glycoprotein pituitary hormone, which is under complex regulation by hypothalamic gonadotropin releasing hormone (GnRH) and by gonadal sex hormones, estrogen and progesterone in females, and testosterone in males.
High concentrations of LH (during the follicular phase) in patients with polycystic ovary syndrome interfere with conception, and may contribute to early pregnancy loss in these patients.
In males, LH has been called interstitial cell stimulating hormone (ICSH) because of its effect on testosterone production by Leydig cells.
This is necessary for the normal maturation of spermatozoa.
LH measurement is used in evaluating the normalcy of hypothalamic-pituitary-gonadal axis.
Measuring serum gonadotropin levels allows for distinguishing between primary gonadal failure and deficient gonadal stimulation.
LH measurement may be of clinical importance because growth hormone and LH are frequently the first hormones to be affected by pituitary disease.
Serum analysis of LH has also been found to be useful in the diagnosis and treatment of infertility in women.
Secretion of LH and FSH (Follicle-Stimulating Hormone) is pulsatile in response to normal intermittent release of GnRH.
While both are pulsatile, LH exhibits circadian rhythm while FSH does not.
In females both LH and FSH vary over the course of the menstrual cycle, with peaks at ovulation.
Hev b 3 forms an integrated part of the "small rubber particles" It has a significant role in rubber synthesis because of its ability to synthesise long-chain polyisoprene.
Hev b 3 has been found to be an important allergen in spina bifida patients, but the reactivity to Hev b 3 is less frequent among health care workers.
Streptococcus anginosus is a species of Streptococcus.
DNA homology studies and 16S rRNA sequence analysis demonstrate S. angiosus is collectively known as the Streptococcus anginosus (or milleri) group along with Streptococcus intermedius and Streptococcus constellatus.
Streptococcus anginosus is part of the human bacteria flora, but can cause diseases including brain and liver abscesses under certain circumstances.
Clostridium difficile toxin's A and B are encoded by the tcdA and tcdB genes, respectively.
They share similar molecular characteristics with comparable sizes (308 kD for tcdA and 269 for tcdB) and 63% homology in their amino acid sequences.
TcdA and tcdB are expressed in response to environmental stresses, such as antibiotics.
Nucleic acid sequences within these genes are targeted to confirm the presence of C. difficile toxins and diagnose the cause of diarrhea, abdominal pain, fever, nausea and other toxin-producing symptoms.
The latency is the time from nerve stimulation to start of the action potential in a nerve conduction study.
Whey is the by-product of cheese-making.
Milk proteins contain about 20% whey components Whey is milk depleted of most of the casein but otherwise equivalent to intact milk.
a-lactalbumin and b-lactoglobulin are major allergens..
Small dense low-density lipoprotein (sdLDL) is a significant marker used to predict cardiovascular disease (CVD).
sdLDL remains in the circulation longer than larger LDL particles, which increases its likelihood of modification including desialylation, glycation, and oxidation that enhance its atherogenicity.
The small size of sdLDL increases its ability to penetrate atrial walls, where its cholesterol is used in the development of atherosclerotic plaques.
In addition to sdLDL being associated with CVD, it has also been linked to dyslipidemia, diabetes, metabolic syndrome, and chronic kidney disease.
Though statins are used to lower sdLDL in many patients, no study has clearly shown them to be efficient at doing so.
This may in part be related to the many dissimilarities in sdLDL test methods.
The Interleukins belong to the family termed cytokines.
They are peptides used by immune and inflammatory cells to communicate and control cell operations.
The cytokines have some similar actions to the Growth Factors but Growth Factors regulate proliferation of non-immune cells.
Interleukin 3 is a 20,000 - 26,000 molecular weight glycoprotein originally called Multi-Colony Stimulating Factor.
It is released primarily by activated T Cells.
Its primary target cells are early hemopoietic cells.
Interleukin 3 also stimulates proliferation of macrophages, neutrophils, eosinophils, megakaryocytes, and mast cells.
Interleukin 3 activates pluripotent stem cells giving rise to a wide range of cell types.
It also induces 20a-Steroid Dehydrogenase in T cells and Leukotriene C4.
It works in conjunction with Interleukin 6 to hasten the emergence of blast cell colony-forming cells.
The UGT1A1 gene (UDP glucuronosyltransferase 1 family, polypeptide A1) is located on chromosome 2q37.
This gene encodes a UDP-glucuronosyltransferase, an enzyme of the glucuronidation pathway that transforms small lipophilic molecules, such as steroids, bilirubin, hormones, and drugs, into water-soluble, excretable metabolites.
This gene is part of a complex locus that encodes several UDP-glucuronosyltransferases.
The locus includes thirteen unique alternate first exons followed by four common exons.
Four of the alternate first exons are considered pseudogenes.
Each of the remaining nine 5' exons may be spliced to the four common exons, resulting in nine proteins with different N-termini and identical C-termini.
Each first exon encodes the substrate binding site, and is regulated by its own promoter.
The preferred substrate of this enzyme is bilirubin, although it also has moderate activity with simple phenols, flavones, and C18 steroids.
Mutations in this gene result in Crigler-Najjar syndromes types I and II and in Gilbert syndrome.
Person age at onset of an event or observation.
Boldenone (1,4-androstadiene-3-one-17β-ol, available as the undecylenate ester), also known under the trade names Equipoise, Ganabol, Equigan and Ultragan, is an anabolic steroid developed for veterinary use, mostly for treatment of horses.
In the US it is not indicated for use in humans and is only available through veterinary clinics.
The physiological dead space is the volume of gas in the respiratory system that is not involved in respiratory gas exchange.
It includes both alveolar and anatomical dead space.
Alveolar dead space is the volume of alveoli that are ventilated but not perfused (or underperfused), and anatomical dead space is the volume of the respiratory system from the nose and mouth to the level of the distal airways at which gas exchange begins to take place.
Physiological dead space can be calculated using Bohr's equation: Vd/Vt = (PaCO2−PeCO2)/PaCO2.
Vd is the dead space volume Vt is tidal volume PaCO2 is arterial partial pressure of CO2 PeCO2 is the partial pressure of CO2 in expired gas
Mevinphos is an organophosphate cholinesterase inhibitor used as an insecticide and acaricide on vegetables, alfalfa, deciduous fruits and nuts.
Mevinphos controls a wide variety of insects, mites and ticks including aphids, grasshoppers, leafhoppers, cutworms and caterpillars that feed on field, forage, vegetable and fruit crops.
Menivphos prevents cholinesterase from lysing acetylcholine into choline and acetic acid which prevents the nervous system from functioning correctly.
Menivphos kills the insect on contact or when they feed on plants that have absorbed it.
Menivphos is highly toxic, affecting the central nervous system, respiratory system and eyes.
There is a huge occupational risk since menivphos can be absorbed through the skin, lungs, and mucous membranes.
Symptoms of poison can be apparent within 15 minutes of exposure, but can be delayed for up to 2 days.
Early symptoms of poisoning include impaired judgement or ability to reason.
Later symptoms include giddiness, tightness in the chest, blurred vision, tearing, hearing issues, loss of muscle coordination, slurred speech, mental confusion, breathing difficulty, increased blood pressure, convulsions, and coma.
Brain-type creatine kinase also known as CK-BB is a creatine kinase which in humans is encoded by the CKB gene.
Ectopic expression (CKBE) of the B (brain) type of creatine kinase (CK-BB) in red cells and platelets is a rare, benign anomaly detected during a newborn screening program for Duchenne muscular dystrophy.
The chemical compound bromomethane, commonly known as methyl bromide, is an organobromine compound with formula CH3Br.
This colorless, odorless, nonflammable gas is produced both industrially and particularly biologically.
It is a recognized ozone-depleting chemical.
It was used extensively as a pesticide until being phased out by most countries in the early 2000s.
The CFTR gene (cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator (ATP-binding cassette sub-family C, member 7)) is located on chromosome 7q31.2.
This gene encodes a member of the ATP-binding cassette (ABC) transporter superfamily.
ABC proteins transport various molecules across extra- and intra-cellular membranes.
ABC genes are divided into seven distinct subfamilies (ABC1, MDR/TAP, MRP, ALD, OABP, GCN20, White).
This protein is a member of the MRP subfamily that is involved in multi-drug resistance.
The encoded protein functions as a chloride channel and controls the regulation of other transport pathways.
Mutations in this gene are associated with the autosomal recessive disorders cystic fibrosis and congenital bilateral aplasia of the vas deferens.
Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been described, many of which result from mutations in this gene.
Enterococcus faecalis and faecium are Gram-positive commensal bacteria of the gastrointestinal tract.
Although part of the normal intestinal flora, Enterococcus species are increasingly recognized as important pathogens and a common cause of nosocomial infections.
E. faecalis and E. faecium account for the vast majority of infections in humans, which can include urinary tract infections, endocarditis, bacteremia, wounds infections, intraabdominal and pelvic infections.
Enterococci can show both intrinsic and acquired resistance to antibiotics including penicillin, chloramphenicol, tetracyclines, rifampin, fluoroquinolones, aminoglycosides and vancomycin.
E. faecium is responsible for the majority of vancomycin-resistant enterococcal (VRE) infections.
The virulence of the Enterococci is generally considered lower than S. aureus.
However, because these infections often occur in debilitated patients, the mortality can be as high as 50%
The TBX5 gene (T-box 5) is located on chromosome 12q24.1.
This gene is a member of a phylogenetically conserved family of genes that share a common DNA-binding domain, the T-box.
T-box genes encode transcription factors involved in the regulation of developmental processes.
This gene is closely linked to related family member T-box 3 (ulnar mammary syndrome) on human chromosome 12.
The encoded protein may play a role in heart development and specification of limb identity.
Mutations in this gene have been associated with Holt-Oram syndrome, a developmental disorder affecting the heart and upper limbs.
Several transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been described for this gene.
Desmosterol is an intermediate in the synthesis of cholesterol.
Desmosterolosis is a rare autosomal recessive inborn errors of cholesterol synthesis that is caused by defective activity of desmosterol reductase which results in an accumulation of demosterol (DHCR24,, combines a severe osteosclerotic skeletal dysplasia and includes 2-3 toe syndactyly with Smith-Lemli-Opitz syndrome (SLOS; the biochemical block in SLOS results in decreased cholesterol levels and increased 7-dehydrocholesterol levels).
Desmosterolosis is caused by mutation of the 24-dehydrocholesterol reductase gene (DHCR24).
Many of the malformations in SLOS and desmosterolosis are consistent with impaired hedgehog function.
The hedgehog proteins include Sonic hedgehog (SHH), which plays a major role in midline patterning and limb development.
Desmosterolosis, caused by defective activity of desmosterol reductase, combines a severe osteosclerotic skeletal dysplasia.
7-dehydrocholesterol reductase (DHCR7, reduces the C7-C8 double bond in the sterol B ring to form cholesterol or desmosterol depending upon the precursor.
Desmosterol can be converted to cholesterol by DHCR24.
Therefore, SLOS and Desmosterolosis patients invariably have elevated levels of cholesterol precursor's 7-dehydrocholesterol (and its spontaneous isomer 8-dehydrocholesterol) and absent desmosterol., .
Lymphocytes with IgA surface Ag
Indinavir (IDV) is a protease inhibitor used as a component of highly active antiretroviral therapy (HAART) to treat HIV infection and AIDS.
Oxygen saturation (sO2) is defined as the ratio of oxyhemoglobin to "active" hemoglobin (oxyhemoglobin + deoxyhemoglobin).
Some say the term oxygen saturation has been erroneously redefined with a denominator of "total" instead of "active" hemoglobin, an ambiguity that can sometimes create confusion when viewing reported values from different instruments (Anesth Analg.
Oxygen saturation is commonly measured by blood gas analyzers and pulse oximetry.
3,5-dihydroxybenzoic acid is a primary metabolite of alkylresinols which have been hydrolyzed by liver enzymes.
A non-benzodiazepine that is used in the management of anxiety.
It has been suggested for use in the treatment of muscle spasm.
Tigecycline (INN) is a glycylcycline antibiotic marketed under the brand name Tygacil.
It was given a U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) fast-track approval and was approved on June 17, 2005.
It was developed in response to the growing prevalence of antibiotic resistance in bacteria such as Staphylococcus aureus and Acinetobacter baumannii.
The New Delhi metallo-β-Lactamase multidrug-resistant Enterobacteriaceae has also shown susceptibility to tigecycline.
The CBL (Cbl proto-oncogene) gene is located on chromosome 11 at 11q23.3 This gene is a proto-oncogene that encodes a RING finger E3 ubiquitin ligase.
The encoded protein is one of the enzymes required for targeting substrates for degradation by the proteasome.
This protein mediates the transfer of ubiquitin from ubiquitin conjugating enzymes (E2) to specific substrates.
This protein also contains an N-terminal phosphotyrosine binding domain that allows it to interact with numerous tyrosine-phosphorylated substrates and target them for proteasome degradation.
As such it functions as a negative regulator of many signal transduction pathways.
This gene has been found to be mutated or translocated in many cancers including acute myeloid leukemia, and expansion of CGG repeats in the 5' UTR has been associated with Jacobsen syndrome.
Mutations in this gene are also the cause of Noonan syndrome-like disorder.
The TP73L gene (tumor protein p63) gene is located on chromosome 3q28.
This gene encodes a member of the p53 family of transcription factors.
An animal model, p63 -/- mice, has been useful in defining the role this protein plays in the development and maintenance of stratified epithelial tissues.
p63 -/- mice have several developmental defects which include the lack of limbs and other tissues, such as teeth and mammary glands, which develop as a result of interactions between mesenchyme and epithelium.
Mutations in this gene are associated with ectodermal dysplasia, and cleft lip/palate syndrome 3 (EEC3); split-hand/foot malformation 4 (SHFM4); ankyloblepharon-ectodermal defects-cleft lip/palate; ADULT syndrome (acro-dermato-ungual-lacrimal-tooth); limb-mammary syndrome; Rap-Hodgkin syndrome (RHS); and orofacial cleft 8.
Both alternative splicing and the use of alternative promoters results in multiple transcript variants encoding different proteins.
Many transcripts encoding different proteins have been reported but the biological validity and the full-length nature of these variants have not been determined.
Panax ginseng (commonly known as ginseng) is a plant found in parts of Asia and Siberia.
The root is used as medicine to improve overall health including memory and cognition.
Panax ginseng is a different plant from American ginseng, Siberian ginseng, and Panax pseudoginseng.
Allergic reactions to ginseng are rare but have been reported.
Allergic reactions include rash, itching, anaphylaxis, and severe dizziness.
The CNR1 gene (cannabinoid receptor 1 (brain)) is located on chromosome 6q14-q15.
This gene encodes one of two cannabinoid receptors.
The cannabinoids, principally delta-9-tetrahydrocannabinol and synthetic analogs, are psychoactive ingredients of marijuana.
The cannabinoid receptors are members of the guanine-nucleotide-binding protein (G-protein) coupled receptor family, which inhibit adenylate cyclase activity in a dose-dependent, stereoselective and pertussis toxin-sensitive manner.
The two receptors have been found to be involved in the cannabinoid-induced CNS effects (including alterations in mood and cognition) experienced by users of marijuana.
Multiple transcript variants encoding two different protein isoforms have been described for this gene.
A genus of the family POXVIRIDAE, subfamily CHORDOPOXVIRINAE, comprising many species infecting mammals.
Viruses of this genus cause generalized infections and a rash in some hosts.
The type species is VACCINIA VIRUS.
Bluetongue disease (also called catarrhal fever) is a non-contagious, arthropod-borne viral disease of ruminants, mainly sheep and less frequently of cattle, goats, buffalo, deer, dromedaries and antelope.
There are no reports of human transmission.
It is caused by the Bluetongue virus.
Escherichia coli (EC) is a gram-negative, flagellated, rod-shaped bacterium that is composed of a stable core set of genes and another more fluid set of genes that include the virulence genes.
These virulence genes encode heat-stable and heat-labile enterotoxins, Shiga toxin 2e, and fimbria including the F6 (also known as 987P and encoded by the fasA gene) fimbria and can be transferred laterally between dividing EC.
E. coli infection in pigs causes post-weaning diarrhea (PWD) which leads to watery diarrhea, dehydration, loss of body weight, and occasionally death.
EC adheres to the small intestine using adhesin factors and produces one or more exotoxins that induce fluid and electrolyte secretion.
The pilus 987P is often present on enterotoxigenic Escherichia coli (ETEC) found in the intestines of neonatal pigs, causing severe diarrheal disease.
A glycoprotein central in both the classical and alternate pathways of complement systems.
C3 can be cleaved into C3a and C3b fragments either spontaneously at low level, or at a higher rate by C3 convertase.
C3a is an anaphylotoxin and a mediator of local inflammatory process.
The larger fragment C3b binds with C3 convertase to form C5 convertase.
Goat's cheese, or chèvre, is cheese made from goat's milk.
Goat cheeses are made in a wide variety of styles, from soft fresh cheese to hard aged cheese.
A metabolite of TESTOSTERONE or ANDROSTENEDIONE with a 3-alpha-hydroxyl group and without the double bond.
The 3-beta hydroxyl isomer is epiandrosterone.
An olive is a small, large-pitted, firm fruit of the evergreen Olea Europaea, probably the first tree to be cultivated by man.
Oil from the fruit had been produced by 3000 BC.
The Olive fruit uncommonly induces symptoms of food allergy in sensitised individuals.
Extranodal extension is the perforation of a cancer through the capsule of a lymph node into the tissue surrounding the node.
Haemophilus influenzae is a gram-negative rod-shaped bacterium and a common source of upper-respiratory tract infections (URTI) including the middle ear.
H influenzae is commonly isolated in the clinical laboratory but differentiating H influenzae from H haemolyticus is difficult because they are phylogenetically so closely related.
There are three primers used in tandem that can amplify the genes sodC, fucK, hpd in order to differentiate H influenzae from H haemolyticus.
Diltiazem is a non-DHP member of the group of drugs known as benzothiazepines, which are a class of calcium channel blockers, used in the treatment of hypertension, angina pectoris, and some types of arrhythmia.
It is also an effective preventive medication for migraine.
It is a class 3 anti-anginal drug, and a class IV antiarrhythmic.
It incites very minimal reflex sympathetic changes.
It is based upon a 1,4-thiazepine ring.
Diltiazem is metabolized by and acts as an inhibitor of the CYP3A4 enzyme.
Aspergillus is a genus of a few hundred mold species found worldwide.
Some Aspergillus species cause serious disease in humans and animals.
The most common pathogenic species are Aspergillus fumigatus and Aspergillus flavus.
Aspergillus flavus produces aflatoxin which is both a toxin and a carcinogen, and which can contaminate foods such as nuts.
The most common causing allergic disease are Aspergillus fumigatus and Aspergillus clavatus.
Other species are important as agricultural pathogens.
cause disease on many grain crops, especially maize, and synthesize mycotoxins including aflatoxin.
Sphingomyelin (SPH) is a type of sphingolipid found in animal cell membranes, especially in the membranous myelin sheath that surrounds some nerve cell axons.
It usually consists of phosphorylcholine and ceramide.
In humans SPH represents ~85% of all sphingolipids.
Sphingomyelin can accumulate in a rare hereditary disease called Niemann-Pick Disease, types A and B.
It is a genetically-inherited disease caused by a deficiency in the enzyme Sphingomyelinase, which causes the accumulation of Sphingomyelin in spleen, liver, lungs, bone marrow, and the brain, causing irreversible neurological damage.
Of the two types involving Sphingomyelinase, type A occurs in infants.
It is characterized by jaundice, an enlarged liver, and profound brain damage.
Children with this type rarely live beyond 18 months.
Type B involves an enlarged liver and spleen, which usually occurs in the pre-teen years.
The brain is not affected.
Most patients present with <1% normal levels of the enzyme in comparison to normal levels.
An excess of spingomyelin in the red blood cell membrane (as in abetalipoproteinemia) causes excess lipid accumulation in the outer leaflet of the red blood cell plasma membrane.
This results in abnormally shaped red cells called acanthocytes.
Nelfinavir (Viracept ®) is an antiretroviral drug used in the treatment of the human immunodeficiency virus (HIV).
Nelfinavir belongs to the class of drugs known as protease inhibitors (PIs) and like other PIs is generally used in combination with other antiretroviral drugs.
Nelfinavir is presented as the mesilate (mesylate) ester prodrug.
A histamine H1 receptor antagonist that is effective in the treatment of chronic urticaria, dermatitis, and histamine-mediated pruritus.
Unlike its major metabolite CETIRIZINE, it does cause drowsiness.
It is also effective as an antiemetic, for relief of anxiety and tension, and as a sedative.
The "Type II Diabetes Action Plan" is a communication tool medical providers use to inform school staff of a patient's diabetic condition and treatment protocol.
School staff uses this Information to guide and authorize their treatment of the child's diabetes while at school.
The following information is included in the plan: 1.
Patient Information: name, dob,, grade, date diabetes diagnosis, 2.
Contact Information: parent/guardian, address, phone numbers, 3.
Students Health Care Provider: provider and clinic names, phone numbers, 4.
Emergency Contact: name, relationship, phone numbers, 5.
Blood Glucose Monitoring: target range, times to check blood glucose, if student can do checks self, type of blood glucose monitor, 6.
Insulin: if insulin at school or not, type of insulin, insulin doses: school, lunchtime, meal bolus: units/grams carbo, correction: units per md/dl over mg/dl (correction scale), if parents provide written, 7.
Student's role in management of their diabetes (check skills present): basic skills, syringe/pen skills, insulin pumps, oral medications, 8.
S/S abnormal blood sugars checklist, 9.
Actions for Low Blood Sugar dependent on measurement and/or consciousness, 10.
Actions for High Blood Sugar, 11.
Daily School Routines/Classroom Information/Accommodations: checklist re lunchtime & snack carbs, access drinking water, bathroom privileges, recess time, physical education,12.
Extra Snacks/Parties: checklist re treats in classroom, 13.
Students who ride the bus: if low, 14.
Students who drive: if low, 15.
Field trips: check list, 16.
Equipment and Supplies: list, and 17.
Acknowledgment: provider signature and date, parent/guardian signature and date.
Microscopy is a technique that uses microscopes to examine very small objects, not seen by the naked eye.
There are three well-known branches of microscopy: optical, electron and scanning probe microscopy.
A trace element that plays a role in glucose metabolism.
It has the atomic symbol Cr, atomic number 24, and atomic weight 52.
According to the Fourth Annual Report on Carcinogens (NTP85-002,1985), chromium and some of its compounds have been listed as known carcinogens.
Rough marshelder is native to Northern America, in particular to Mexico, and to Nebraska and Texas in the USA.
Although some species of the genus Iva have been introduced in other parts of the world, most are found in the North American states of Texas, Louisiana, Mississippi, Oklahoma and Nebraska.
Rough Marshelder pollen rivals Ragweed pollen in the Mississippi Delta.
Related species are found in Canada and Australia.
Anecdotal evidence suggests that asthma, allergic rhinitis and allergic conjunctivitis are common following exposure to pollen from Rough marshelder
Palmitoyl protein thioesterases are enzymes that remove thioester-linked fatty acyl groups such as palmitate from modified cysteine residues in proteins or peptides during lysosomal degradation.
Neuronal ceroid lipofuscinoses (NCL) represent a group of encephalopathies that occur in 1 in 12,500 children.
Mutations in the palmitoyl protein thioesterase gene causing infantile neuronal ceroid lipofuscinosis.
The most common mutation results in intracellular accumulation of the polypeptide and undetectable enzyme activity in the brain.
Direct sequencing of cDNAs derived from brain RNA of INCL patients has shown a mis-sense transversion of A to T at nucleotide position 364, which results in substitution of Trp for Arg at position 122 in the protein - Arg 122 is immediately adjacent to a lipase consensus sequence that contains the putative active site Ser of PPT.
The occurrence of this and two other independent mutations in the PPT gene strongly suggests that defects in this gene cause INCL.
Phosphorylases are enzymes that catalyze the addition of a phosphate group from an inorganic phosphate (phosphate+hydrogen) to an acceptor.
Tetrachloroethane may refer to either of two isomeric chemical compounds: - 1,1,1,2-Tetrachloroethane (R-130a) - 1,1,2,2-Tetrachloroethane (R-130)
Ravulizumab is a complement C5 inhibitor that is used to treat paroxysmal nocturnal hemoglobinuria (PNH) and atypical hemolytic uremic syndrome (aHUS).
Its mechanism of action is binding to the C5 protein, which prevents formation of the complement C5b-9 complex.
Grade 3 sperm move in a straight line at a reasonable speed and can home in on an egg accurately.
Measures the clotting time from the activation of factor XII
Includes sequence analysis of MPZ, Connexin32, NFL, GDAP1 and MFN2
Carisoprodol (N-isopropylmeprobamate, Soma, ingredient of Soma Compound) is a carbamate derivative first synthesized in 1959 and used clinically as a muscle relaxant and sedative.
Carisoprodol is known to be metabolized to meprobamate and hydroyl-meprobamate.
It is supplied as the free drug in 200-350 mg tablets and capsules, sometimes in combination with acetaminophen, aspirin or caffeine for oral administration.
Ribonuclease (commonly abbreviated RNase) is a type of nuclease that catalyzes the degradation of RNA into smaller components.
Ribonucleases can be divided into endoribonucleases and exoribonucleases, and comprise several sub-classes within the EC 2.7 (for the phosphorolytic enzymes) and 3.1 (for the hydrolytic enzymes) classes of enzymes.
RNases play a critical role in many biological processes, including angiogenesis and self-incompatibility in flowering plants (angiosperms).
Also, RNases in prokaryotic toxin-antitoxin systems are proposed to function as plasmid stability loci, and as stress-response elements when present on the chromosome.
The G6PD gene (glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase) is located on chromosome Xq28.
This gene encodes glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase.
This protein is a cytosolic enzyme encoded by a housekeeping X-linked gene whose main function is to produce NADPH, a key electron donor in the defense against oxidizing agents and in reductive biosynthetic reactions.
G6PD is remarkable for its genetic diversity.
Many variants of G6PD, mostly produced from missense mutations, have been described with wide ranging levels of enzyme activity and associated clinical symptoms.
G6PD deficiency may cause neonatal jaundice, acute hemolysis, or severe chronic non-spherocytic hemolytic anemia.
Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
3-Hydroxykynurenine is a metabolite of tryptophan, an essential amino acid used for protein synthesis.
Tryptophan metabolism regulates levels of amines, including serotonin, kynurenines, melatonin and trace amines.
Tryptophan and its metabolites play a key role in several pathophysiological conditions, including neuroendocrine tumors (i.e. carcinoid tumors with excessive serotonin production), mood disorders such as depression with decreased serotonin production, inflammation, immune-activation, and pregnancy.
Guavas are native to Central or South America but now grow in many countries.
Anecdotal evidence suggests that Guava can occasionally induce symptoms of food allergy in sensitised individuals; however, no studies have been reported to date.
Urinary excretion of cAMP minus that filtered by the glomerulus
Valine is a branched-chain amino acid that stimulates activity and promotes muscle growth and tissue repair.
It is elevated in branched-chain ketoaciduria (maple syrup urine disease), along with leucine, isoleucine, and alloisoleucine.
Lysine is a primary marker for hyperlysinemia and secondary marker for pyruvate carboxylase deficiency.
Populus tremula (Aspen, or Common Aspen or Eurasian Aspen to distinguish it from related species) is a species of poplar native to cool temperate regions of Europe and Asia, from the British Isles east to Kamchatka, north to inside the Arctic Circle in Scandinavia and northern Russia, and south to central Spain, Turkey, the Tian Shan, North Korea, and northern Japan
Reportable influenza virus B surveillance results panel
A genus of the family CORONAVIRIDAE which causes respiratory or gastrointestinal disease in a variety of vertebrates.
Beta blockers (β-blockers, beta-adrenergic blocking agents, beta antagonists, beta-adrenergic antagonists, beta-adrenoreceptor antagonists, or beta adrenergic receptor antagonists) are a class of drugs that are particularly used for the management of cardiac arrhythmias, protecting the heart from a second heart attack (myocardial infarction) after a first heart attack (secondary prevention), and, in certain cases, hypertension.
Globulins include alpha 1, alpha 2, beta, and gamma globulins.
The alpha 1 fraction consists of alpha 1 antitrypsin, alpha 1 lipoprotein, and alpha 1 acid glycoprotein.
The alpha 2 fraction consists of alpha 2 macroglobulin, haptoglobin, and apolipoprotein B.
The beta fraction consists of transferrin, hemopexin, complement factors, antithrombin III, and immunoglobulins.
The gamma fraction contains the immunoglobulins G,A,M,D, and E. Increases in the gamma fraction of CSF protein are often found in Multiple Sclerosis (MS).
Macrophages found in the TISSUES, as opposed to those found in the blood (MONOCYTES) or serous cavities (SEROUS MEMBRANE).
CV2 (CRMP5) antibody binds to cytoplasm and cell processes of a subpopulation of oligodendrocytes in the white matter and targets 66 kDa protein known as CRMP5.
It is ofen found in association with small cell lung carcinoma.
CV2 autoimmune response can also be found in cerebellar ataxia, encephalomyelitis, limbic encephalitis, sensory and sensorimotor neuropathy, autonomic neuropathy, and chorea.
CV2 autoantibodies are also present in patients with rapidly progressive dementia, and are used to monitor treatment in some cases.
Glycosaminoglycans (GAGs) or mucopolysaccharides are long unbranched polysaccharides consisting of a repeating disaccharide unit.
This unit consists of an N-acetyl-hexosamine and a hexose or hexuronic acid, either or both of which may be sulfated.
Members of the glycosaminoglycan family vary in the type of hexosamine, hexose or hexuronic acid unit they contain (e.g. glucuronic acid, iduronic acid, galactose, galactosamine, glucosamine).
They also vary in the geometry of the glycosidic linkage.
This family of carbohydrates is essential or important for the life of vertebrates and an assortment of lower animals.
GAGs form an important component of connective tissues.
GAG chains may be covalently linked to a protein to form proteoglycans.
An influenza virus that had never been identified as a cause of infections in people before the 2009 H1N1 (Swine flu) pandemic.
Genetic analyses of this virus showed that it originated from animal influenza viruses and was unrelated to the human seasonal H1N1 viruses that had been in general circulation among people since 1977.
Antibodies to the seasonal H1N1 virus did not protect against the pandemic H1N1 virus, however a significant percentage of people age 65 and older had some immunity against the pandemic virus.
After early outbreaks in North America in April 2009 the new influenza virus spread rapidly around the world.
Unlike typical seasonal flu patterns, the new virus caused high levels of summer infections in the northern hemisphere, and then even higher levels of activity during cooler months.
The virus also led to patterns of death and illness not normally seen in influenza infections.
Most of the deaths occurred among younger people, including those who were otherwise healthy.
Ethyl glucuronide (EtG) is a direct metabolite of ethanol, which is formed by enzymatic conjugation of ethanol with glucuronic acid.
Alcohol in the urine is normally detected for only a few hours versus several days for EtG. EtG, therefore, can be used to monitor compliance programs for abstinence from alcohol.
Mibolerone is a potent anabolic steroid which is both higher affinity and more selective for the androgen receptor than metribolone.
Brilliant Black BN, Brilliant Black PN, Brilliant Black A, Black PN, Food Black 1, Naphthol Black, C.I. Food Brown 1, or C.I. 28440, is a synthetic black diazo dye
The interleukin-2 receptor (IL-2R) is heterotrimeric protein expressed on the surface of certain immune cells, such as lymphocytes, that binds and responds to a cytokine called interleukin 2.
Three protein chains (α, β and γ) are non-covelently associated to form the IL-2R.
The α and β chains are involved in binding IL-2, while signal transduction following cytokine interaction is carried out by the γ-chain, along with the β subunit.
The β and γ chains of the IL-2R are members of the type I cytokine receptor family.
Cytokeratin 8 (CK8) is a type 2 keratin and one of the intermediate filament proteins.
CK8 is typically found with CK18; together the two keratins form insoluble filaments that extend from the nucleus to the plasma membrane.
CK8 and 18 also interact with plakins and proteins that have transmembrane domains at desmosomes and hemidesmosomes.
CK8 is associated with multiple cancers, including cervical, breast, and thyroid .
Arsenic (As, CAS No. 7440-38-2) is a metalloid that exists in both inorganic and organic forms in the environment and is classified as a human carcinogen by the U.S. EPA (Environmental Protection Agency) and IARC (International Agency for Research in Cancer).
Arsenic levels are naturally higher in certain geographical areas, including regions of Asia, China, Chile, Mexico and United States.
Exposure to toxic levels of arsenic, mainly via ingestion of As contaminated water and food, occur in these areas as well as near hazardous waste sites or in the workplace.
Chronic exposure to low level of arsenic can cause skin lesions (e.g. melanosis, leucomelanosis, and keratosis), neurological effects, high blood pressure, diabetes mellitus, cardiovascular and respiratory diseases, and cancers typically involving the skin, lung, and bladder.
High exposure levels to arsenic can cause death.
Veterinary Medicine: Arsenic is seldom reported since the concentrations normally found in animal feeds are significantly less than the toxic dietary concentration.
If arsenic poisoning occurs, signs of intoxication include reduce feed intake and depressed growth.
Some animal species can have convulsions and incoordination followed by posterior paresis and quadriplegia, blindness and decreased hemoglobin.
In pigs, cases of arsenic poisoning usually arise from the use of organic arsenical growth-promoting feed additives.
Naegleria is a eukaryotic genus.
Species include: Naegleria fowleri, which causes a rare but generally fatal disease in humans and Naegleria gruberi
Rabbit hemorrhagic disease is caused by rabbit hemorrhagic disease virus (RHDV), a member of the genus Lagovirus and family Caliciviridae.
There are many strains of RHDV, and three major viral subtypes: RHDV ("classical RHDV"), the antigenic variant RHDVa, and the recently emerged virus RHDV2 (also called RHDVb).
Classical RHDV and RHDVa comprise one serotype (RHDV1), while RHDV2 belongs to a different serotype.
Stigmasterol is a phytosterol, meaning it is steroid derived from plants.
As a food additive, phytosterols have cholesterol-lowering properties (reducing cholesterol absorption in intestines), and may act in cancer prevention.
Phytosterols naturally occur in small amount in vegetable oils, especially soybean oil.
One such phytosterol complex, isolated from vegetable oil, is cholestatin, composed of campesterol, stigmasterol, and brassicasterol, and is marketed as a dietary supplement.
Sterols can reduce cholesterol in human subjects by up to 15%.
The mechanism behind phytosterols and the lowering of cholesterol occurs as follows : the incorporation of cholesterol into micelles in the gastrointestinal tract is inhibited, decreasing the overall amount of cholesterol absorbed.
This may in turn help to control body total cholesterol levels, as well as modify HDL, LDL and TAG levels.
Many margarines, butters, breakfast cereals and spreads are now enriched with phytosterols and marketed towards people with high cholesterol and a wish to lower it.
Pipamperone is an antipsychotic drug (a butyrophenone derivative) used in the treatment of schizophrenia.
Pipamperone is known to the general public under the marketed brand name Dipiperon.
Diploid (indicated by 2n = 2x) cells have two homologous copies of each chromosome, usually one from the mother and one from the father.
Crab is a potent allergen, sometimes causing dramatic manifestations, such as anaphylaxis.
Norvenlafaxine (brand name Pristiq) is used to treat depression.
Also known as O-desmethylvenlafaxine and desvenlafaxine, it is the major active metabolite of venlafaxine, an antidepressant from the serotonin-norepinephrine reuptake inhibitor (SNRI class).
It works by increasing the amounts of serotonin and norepinephrine, natural substances in the brain that help maintain mental balance.
Eastern equine encephalitis virus (EEEV), commonly called sleeping sickness or Triple E, is a zoonotic alphavirus and arbovirus present in North, Central and South America and the Caribbean.
EEEV was first recognised in Massachusetts, USA in 1831 when 75 horses died of encephalitic illness.
Epizootics in horses have continued to occur regularly in USA.
The causal agent, EEEV, was first isolated from infected horse brains in 1933.
In 1938, the first confirmed human cases were identified when thirty children died of encephalitis in northeastern USA.
These cases coincided with outbreaks in horses in the same regions.
The fatality rate in humans infected with EEEV is 35%.
EEEV is capable of infecting a wide range of animals including mammals, birds, reptiles and amphibians, but not all animals develop high enough levels of EEEV to be contagious to humans.
The virus is maintained in birds primarily through Culiseta melanura mosquitoes and transmission to other species occurs via mosquitoes.
CD27 is a lymphocyte cell surface marker.
B lymphocytes that do not express CD27 are typically classified as naive, while those that do are classified as memory cells.
Mature circulating B cells can be separated into three subpopulations based on cell surface CD27 and IgD expression: 1) naive B cells (CD27-IgD+); 2) memory B cells that have not undergone immunoglobulin class switching (CD27+IgD+); and 3) memory B cells that have class switched (CD27+IgD-).
Stemphylium botryosum is a well-known plant pathogen found in the soil in temperate and subtropical regions and on a wide range of host plants.
S. botryosum spores release allergens before germination, and the extent of human exposure is unknown.
However, S. botryosum has been found to induce symptoms of asthma and hypersensitivity pneumonitis in sensitized humans.
Soil isolates have been found from forests, grasslands, decaying vegetation, wheat plantings, beet and citrus cultivation, coffee plantations, polluted fresh water, leaf litter of trees, and bark and leaves of citrus.
As a seedborne fungus, S. botryosum causes black mold rot on tomatoes (especially in Israel), wheat and barley.
It also causes leaf spot on lettuce, and can be found growing on a wide range of vegetables including beans and peas.
3-methylglutaconyl-CoA hydratase catalyzes the conversion of 3-methylglutaconyl-CoA to 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl-CoA. Deficiency of 3-methylglutaconyl-CoA hydratase leads to elevated levels of 3-methylglutaconic acid, resulting in metabolic acidosis and aciduria.
Beginning in infancy to early childhood, patients with 3-methylglutaconyl-CoA hydratase deficiency have symptoms of developmental delay, dystonia, and spastic quadriparesis.
The deficiency is caused by mutations in the AUH gene and is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern.
The KRAS gene (Kirsten rat sarcoma viral oncogene homolog) is located on chromosome 12p12.1.
This gene, a Kirsten ras oncogene homolog from the mammalian ras gene family, encodes a protein that is a member of the small GTPase superfamily.
A single amino acid substitution is responsible for an activating mutation.
The transforming protein that results is implicated in various malignancies, including lung adenocarcinoma, mucinous adenoma, ductal carcinoma of the pancreas and colorectal carcinoma.
Alternative splicing leads to variants encoding two isoforms that differ in the C-terminal region.
A synthetic nonsteroidal estrogen used in the treatment of menopausal and postmenopausal disorders.
It was also used formerly as a growth promoter in animals.
According to the Fourth Annual Report on Carcinogens (NTP 85-002, 1985), diethylstilbestrol has been listed as a known carcinogen.
Spirometry is the most commonly used pulmonary function test (PFT).
It is widely available in clinician's offices and emergency rooms and is used for screening as well as monitoring patients with various pulmonary diseases, including asthma and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD).
Common measurements include forced vital capacity (FVC) and forced expiratory volume in 1 second (FEV1).
The FEV1 varies inversely and linearly with the degree of airflow obstruction in patients with asthma and COPD.
Reversibility of obstruction, which is suggestive of asthma, is assessed by repeating spirometry measurements after administration of a bronchodilator.
A carbonic anhydrase inhibitor that is used as a diuretic and in the treatment of glaucoma.
The Avocado originated in Central and South America and spread to nearly all parts of the tropical and subtropical world with suitable environmental conditions.
Among leading producers are the larger islands of the Caribbean, California, New Zealand, the Philippines, Australia, South Africa and several Mediterranean countries.
Avocado may commonly induce symptoms of food allergy in sensitised individuals (9,56-58), although the majority of reports describing allergy to Avocado do so in the context of cross-reactivity to Latex allergy ("Latex-fruit syndrome").
Mexiletine (INN, sold under the trade name Mexitil) belongs to the Class IB anti-arrhythmic group of medicines.
It is used to treat arrhythmias within the heart, or seriously irregular heartbeats.
It slows conduction in the heart and makes the heart tissue less sensitive.
Dizziness, heartburn, nausea, nervousness, trembling, unsteadiness are common side effects.
Mexiletine may also be of use in patients experiencing refractory pain and is also effective for treating muscle stiffness resulting from myotonia congenita (Thomsen disease) or myotonic dystrophy (Steinert's disease).
Cyp c 1 is a major fish protein, a parvalbumin.
Parvalbumins are small, acidic calcium-binding buffer proteins found in fast muscle of lower and higher vertebrates.
They are thought to be involved in the relaxation process in fast-twitch muscle.
They have been identified as the major fish allergens.
This is the basis for the use of recombinant Carp parvalbumin as a tool for in vitro and in vivo diagnosis of fish allergy.
Carp parvalbumin is a 3 EF-hand calcium-binding protein.
It has remarkable stability, which explains why, despite cooking and exposure to the gastrointestinal tract, it (along with other paralbumins) can sensitise patients.
A xanthoma cell is a lipid-laden histiocyte, also called a foamy histiocyte.
Aspirin (USAN), also known as acetylsalicylic acid (abbreviated ASA), is a salicylate drug, often used as an analgesic to relieve minor aches and pains, as an antipyretic to reduce fever, and as an anti-inflammatory medication.
A cephalosporin antibiotic that is administered intravenously or intramuscularly.
It is active against most common gram-positive and gram-negative microorganisms, is a potent inhibitor of Enterobacteriaceae, and is highly resistant to hydrolysis by beta-lactamases.
The drug has a high rate of efficacy in many types of infection and to date no severe side effects have been noted.
The cephalosporins are a class of β-lactam antibiotics originally derived from Acremonium, which was previously known as "Cephalosporium".
Cephalosporins are indicated for the prophylaxis and treatment of infections caused by bacteria susceptible to this particular form of antibiotic.
First-generation cephalosporins are active predominantly against Gram-positive bacteria, and successive generations have increased activity against Gram-negative bacteria (albeit often with reduced activity against Gram-positive organisms).
A triglyceride (TG, triacylglycerol, TAG, or triacylglyceride) is an ester derived from glycerol and three fatty acids.
There are many triglycerides, depending on the oil source, some are highly unsaturated, some less so.
Triglycerides are the main constituents of vegetable oil (typically more unsaturated) and animal fats (typically more saturated).
In humans, triglycerides are a mechanism for storing unused calories, and their high concentrations in blood correlates with the consumption of starchy and fatty foods.
High levels of triglycerides in the bloodstream have been linked to atherosclerosis and, by extension, the risk of heart disease and stroke.
Diets high in carbohydrates, with carbohydrates accounting for more than 60% of the total energy intake, can increase triglyceride levels.
Prealbuimn, a tetrameric protein (MW 50,000-70,000) composed of 4 chains, migrates on electrophoresis in 3 distinct fractions.
It migrates faster than serum albumin and its concentration ranges from 7 to 33 percent in the serum.
The levels of prealbumin levels decrease in liver disease.
Eruca is a genus of flowering plants in the family Brassicaceae, native to the Mediterranean region, which includes the leaf vegetable known as arugula or rocket.
•Act d 5, also known as kiwellin, is a 26-28 kDa protein found in Kiwi.
Allergy manifestations to Kiwi range from localized oral allergy syndrome (OAS) to life-threatening anaphylaxis.
The form of a particular micronutrient (e.g. calcium citrate vs. calcium carbonate vs. calcium phosphate) where the form may impact the patient's nutrient status.
The measurement length is from the posterior heel to the tip of the big toe.
A methylsulfonyl analog of CHLORAMPHENICOL.
It is an antibiotic and immunosuppressive agent.
IgA heavy chains with bound lambda light chains.
Cytomegalovirus Immune Globulin Intravenous (Human) (CMV-IGIV), is an immunoglobulin G (IgG) containing a standardized amount of antibody to Cytomegalovirus (CMV).
It may be used for the prophylaxis of cytomegalovirus disease associated with transplantation of kidney, lung, liver, pancreas, and heart.
Alone or in combination with an antiviral agent, it has been shown to: Reduce the risk of CMV-related disease and death in some of the highest-risk transplant patients, provide a measurable long-term survival benefit, and produce minimal treatment-related side effects and adverse events.
The Parrot is one of the most common domestic birds, together with Budgerigars and Canaries.
Asthma, allergic rhinitis and allergic conjunctivitis may result following exposure to Canary feathers, epithelial cells or droppings.
The allergic manifestations may present as Bird Fancier's Asthma and as the so-called Bird-Egg Syndrome, with symptoms such as rhinitis, urticaria and angioedema, and also as gastro-intestinal problems.
Cyclohexanol is the organic compound with the formula (CH2)5CHOH.
The molecule is related to cyclohexane ring by replacement of one hydrogen atom by a hydroxyl group.
This compound exists as a deliquescent colorless solid, which, when very pure, melts near room temperature.
Billions of kilograms are produced annually, mainly as a precursor to nylon.
Interleukin-2 (IL-2) is an interleukin, a type of cytokine immune system signaling molecule, which is a leukocytotrophic hormone that is instrumental in the body's natural response to microbial infection and in discriminating between foreign (non-self) and self.
IL-2 mediates its effects by binding to IL-2 receptors, which are expressed by lymphocytes, the cells that are responsible for immunity.
HPV type 73 has been associated with low grade cervical abnormalities, cancer precursors, and anogenital cancers.
An elastic fiber is composed of elastin and fibrillin-containing microfibrils.
Elastic fibers are a key part of the extracellular matrix in the respiratory system and play a major role in lung development.
They are essential for lung elasticity and recoil, and help with equal transmission of mechanical forces throughout the lungs.
Calcified elastic fibers are found in various disease states, including tuberculosis.
Ursodiol, also known as ursodeoxycholic acid and the abbreviation UDCA, is one of the secondary bile acids, which are metabolic byproducts of intestinal bacteria.
Primary bile acids are produced by the liver and stored in the gall bladder.
When secreted into the colon, primary bile acids can be metabolized into secondary bile acids by intestinal bacteria.
Primary and secondary bile acids help the body digest fats.
Ursodeoxycholic acid helps regulate cholesterol by reducing the rate at which the intestine absorbs cholesterol molecules while breaking up micelles containing cholesterol.
Because of this property, ursodeoxycholic acid is used to treat (cholesterol) gallstones non-surgically.
While some bile acids are known to be colon tumor promoters (eg. deoxycholic acid), others such as ursodeoxycholic acid are chemopreventive, perhaps by inducing cellular differentiation and/or cellular senescence in colon epithelial cells.
Acetoacetic acid (also known as 3-oxobutanoic acid or diacetic acid) is a beta-keto acid of the keto acid group.
It is a weak organic acid produced in the liver under conditions of poor metabolism leading to excessive fatty acid breakdown.
Increased levels are seen with gluconeogenesis, PHD complex deficiency, respiratory chain defects, IVA,PA, MMA, multiple carboxylase deficiency,3-methylcrotonyl-CoA carboxylase deficiency, glyceroluria, MSUD, GA I, MAD deficiency,Beta-ketothiolase deficiencies,2-amino/2-ketoadipic acidemia, mitochondrial SCHAD, and fatty acids oxidation deficiency.
Bahia grass (Paspalum notatum), also known as common bahia and Pensacola bahia, is a tropical to subtropical perennial grass (family Poaceae).
It is identifiable by its prominent dual, V-shaped inflorescence consisting of two spike-like racemes containing multiple tiny spikelets, each about 2.8-3.5 mm long.
This grass is low-growing and creeping with stolons and stout, scaly rhizomes.
Stolons are pressed firmly to the ground, have short internodes, and root freely from the nodes forming a dense sod.
The flat, tough-textured leaves are usually hairless, with blades 2-6 mm wide.
They are flat, folded, and inrolled, tapering to a fine point.
The leaf bases at the terminus of each rhizome usually have a purplish hue.
Stems usually reach 20-75 cm tall.
The terminal dual racemes are each attached to the top of a slender stem or with one slightly below the other.
Infrequently, there may be a third present below the terminal ones.
The spikelets closely overlap in two rows.
3-Methyl-2-oxovaleric acid is a metabolite of isoleucine in man, animals and bacteria.
It is the alpha-keto acid analogue of isoleucine.
3-Methyl-2-oxovaleric acid is produced from isoleucine by cytosolic branched chain aminotransferase 1 (EC:2.6.1.42), whereupon it is further degraded by branched chain keto acid dehydrogenase E1 to 2-Methyl-1-hydroxybutyl-ThPP.
It is used as a clinical marker for maple syrup urine disease (MSUD).
MSUD is caused by a deficiency of the branched-chain -keto acid dehydrogenase compex resulting in an accumulation of branched-chain amino acids and the corresponding -keto-and -hydroxy acids in blood, urine and cerebrospinal fluid causing neurological damage and mental retardation.
Simeprevir (formerly TMC435, tradenames Olysio and Sovriad) is a second generation, highly specific and potent direct antiviral agent (DAA) inhibitor of HCV NS3/4A protease, for the treatment of hepatitis C virus (HCV) infection.
Simeprevir is indicated for treating chronic HCV infection as a part of a triple antiviral treatment regimen along with two other drugs, PEG-IFN and RBV.
It is primary efficacious in treating HCV genotype 1 infected patients with compensated liver disease including cirrhosis.
A species of gram-negative bacteria pathogenic to CHICKENS; TURKEYS, and guinea fowls.
It causes disease in a wide variety of organs and tissues including JOINTS, tendon sheaths and the RESPIRATORY TRACT.
Norfluoxetine is a metabolite of fluoxetine
1,1-Dichloroethene, commonly called 1,1-dichloroethylene or 1,1-DCE, is an organochloride with the molecular formula C2H2Cl2.
It is a colorless liquid with a sharp odor.
Like most chlorocarbons, it is poorly soluble in water, but soluble in organic solvents.
1,1-DCE was the precursor to the original cling-wrap for food, but this application has been phased out.
The health effects from exposure to 1,1-DCE are primarily on the central nervous system, including symptoms of sedation, inebriation, convulsions, spasms, and unconsciousness at high concentrations
A metabolite of Sertraline, which is an antidepressant which belongs to a group of medicines known as selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs).
Methicillin-sensitive Staphylococcus aureus (MSSA) is a type of Staph aureus that does not contain the mecA gene and therefore, is still susceptible to methicillin and other beta-lactam antibiotics.
Transfer of mecA to MSSA turns MSSA into methicillin-resistant Staph aureus (MRSA), which is an increasingly common cause of both hospital- and community-acquired skin and wound infections.
A penicillin derivative commonly used as sodium or potassium salts in the treatment of a variety of infections.
It is effective against most gram-positive bacteria.
It has also been used as an experimental anti-convulsant because of its actions on gamma-aminobutyric acid mediated synaptic transmission.
Liver transplants are performed in patients with liver dysfunction due to chronic liver disease and acute liver failure.
Anastomosis is the surgical formation of connections between the new liver and the patient's hepatic artery, portal vein, inferior vena cava and bile ducts.
Dysfunction of any of these anastomosis sites frequently results in transplant dysfunction.
Posttransplantation complications can occur at any anastomosis site and can be life-threatening.
The CD79A and CD79B genes, located on chromosomes 19 and 17, respectively, encode the alpha and beta chains of the B-cell antigen receptor complex-associated protein.
When an antigen binds to the B-cell antigen receptor (BCR) complex, the B-cell antigen receptor complex-associated protein initiates a signal transduction cascade that results in internalization of the BCR complex, transport to late endosomes, and antigen presentation.
The alpha chain also plays a role in cell surface expression of the BCR and differentiation of pro- and pre-B-cells.
Two different CD79A mutations that lead to a truncated alpha chain are associated with agammaglobulinemia 3, an autosomal recessive disease associated with low or absent serum antibodies and circulating B-cells that is characterized by severe infections early in childhood.
The PARK2 gene (parkin RBR E3 ubiquitin protein ligase) is located on chromosome 6q25.2-q27.
The precise function of this gene is unknown; however, the encoded protein is a component of a multiprotein E3 ubiquitin ligase complex that mediates the targeting of substrate proteins for proteasomal degradation.
Mutations in this gene are known to cause Parkinson disease and autosomal recessive juvenile Parkinson disease.
Alternative splicing of this gene produces multiple transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms.
Additional splice variants of this gene have been described but currently lack transcript support.
The human leukocyte antigen system (sometimes human lymphocyte antigen) (HLA) is the general name of a group of genes in the human major histocompatibility complex (MHC) region on human chromosome 6 (mouse chromosome 17) that encodes the cell-surface antigen -presenting proteins.
The proteins encoded by HLAs are the proteins on the outer part of body cells that are (effectively) unique to that person.
These proteins are sometimes designated the Mhc, although this convention is rarely observed.
Nordoxepin is a major metabolite of doxepin.
The A181T mutation is associated with Lamivudine and Adefovir resistance
Apelin (also known as APLN) is a peptide that in humans is encoded by the APLN gene.
Apelin is widely expressed in various organs such as the heart, lung, kidney, liver, adipose tissue, gastrointestinal tract, brain, adrenal glands, endothelium, and human plasma.
Vascular expression of the receptor participates in the control of blood pressure and its activation promotes the formation of new blood vessels (angiogenesis).
Apelin acts as a mediator of the cardiovascular control, including for blood pressure and blood flow.
It is one of the most potent stimulators of cardiac contractility yet identified, and plays a role in cardiac tissue remodeling.
In the pancreas, apelin inhibits the insulin secretion induced by glucose.
Apelin receptor is also expressed in the neurons of brain areas involved in water and food intake.
Evaluates nutritional intake and intestinal absorption of EFAs.
Vardenafil (INN) is a PDE5 inhibitor used for treating impotence (erectile dysfunction) that is sold under the trade name Levitra (Bayer AG, GSK, and SP).
Compound of globin and an open-ring iron porphyrin.
An intermediate in the formation of bile pigment from the catabolism of hemoglobin.
Edoxaban (DU-176b, trade names Savaysa, Lixiana) is an oral anticoagulant drug that acts as a direct factor Xa inhibitor, by selectively inhibiting free factor Xa in the coagulation cascade, resulting in reduced thrombin generation.
Edoxaban is used for the prevention of stroke and non-central-nervous-system systemic embolism in patients with non-valvular atrial fibrillation.
The FDA also approved edoxaban for treating deep vein thrombosis and pulmonary embolism in patients who have been treated with a parenteral anticoagulant for 5 to 10 days.
Storage-stable glycoprotein blood coagulation factor that can be activated to factor Xa by both the intrinsic and extrinsic pathways.
A deficiency of factor X, sometimes called Stuart-Prower factor deficiency, may lead to a systemic coagulation disorder.
The APOE gene (apolipoprotein E) is located on chromosome 19q13.2.
The protein encoded by this gene is a major apoprotein of the chylomicron.
It binds to a specific liver and peripheral cell receptor, and is essential for the normal catabolism of triglyceride-rich lipoprotein constituents.
This gene maps to chromosome 19 in a cluster with the related apolipoprotein C1 and C2 genes.
Mutations in this gene result in familial dysbetalipoproteinemia, or type III hyperlipoproteinemia (HLP III), in which increased plasma cholesterol and triglycerides are the consequence of impaired clearance of chylomicron and VLDL remnants.
Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants.
Phytantate testing aids in the detection of Refsum's disease.
Elevated levels also found with abetalipoproteinemia.
Human immunodeficiency virus is a non-taxonomic and historical term referring to any of two species, specifically HIV-1 and/or HIV-2.
Prior to 1986, this was called human T-lymphotropic virus type III/lymphadenopathy-associated virus (HTLV-III/LAV).
From 1986-1990, it was called HIV and since 1991, the two species have been designated HIV-1 and HIV-2.
Activated partial thromboplastic time.lupus sensitive (aPTT-LA), also called sensitive aPTT, is a screening laboratory test often used as the first step in a testing cascade to detect the presence of lupus anticoagulants (LA), which are autoantibodies associated with excess clot formation, excess bleeding, and repeated miscarriages.
Sensitive aPTT has less phospholipid relative to the standard aPTT reagent, which makes the test more sensitive to the presence of phospholipid antibodies.
Blue vetch is found in Eurasia, North America, temperate South America and East Africa.
Lathyrus sativus is a high-yielding, drought-resistant legume consumed as a food in northern India and neighbouring countries, as well as in Ethiopia.
Blue vetch may uncommonly induce symptoms of food allergy and occupational allergy in sensitised individuals.
The invasion plasmid antigen H (ipaH) gene is a multicopy gene exclusively found in all Shigella and enteroinvasive E. coli (EIEC).
Shigella and EIEC both evolved from nonpathogenic Escherichia coli, and sequencing of multiple housekeeping genes indicates that EIEC is genetically related to Shigella.
Shigella causes bacillary dysentery with symptoms including abdominal cramps, nausea, fever and a bloody and mucus diarrhea.
By testing for the absence of lysine decarboxylase (LDC) activity and presence of the IpaH gene, Shigella and EIEC can be differentiated from non-enteroinvasive E. coli.
Cytochrome P450 1A2 (CYP1A2)-mediated drug metabolism is highly variable and often based on a patient's genotype.
Genetic testing is performed to identifying patients who are poor, intermediate, extensive, or ultrarapid metabolizers of drugs metabolized by CYP1A2.
The CYP1A2 c.-2467delT polymorphism is associated with increased activity of the CYP1A2 enzyme.
Crossreactivity between cow's milk and mare's milk has been shown in RAST inhibition.
The "Inflammatory Bowel Disease Action Plan" is a communication tool medical providers use to inform school staff of a patient's Inflammatory Bowel Disease diagnosis and treatment protocol.
School staff uses this information to guide and authorize their treatment of the child's Inflammatory Bowel Disease while at school.
The following information is included in the action plan:1.
Patient information: demographics, school, grade, parent/guardian, emergency contacts, primary care provider/clinic, 2.
Inflammatory Bowel Disease description: signs/symptoms, 3.
Treatment protocol during school hours: medication orders (type medication, dosage amount and time), 4.
Additional notes/instructions: free text, and 5.
Acknowledgement: Authorization for administration of medication away from clinic, provider signature and date, parent/guardian authorization: signatures and dates consenting school to give medications.
A synthetic hormone with anabolic and androgenic properties and moderate progestational activity.
MLH1 gene methylation has been associated with many kinds of cancers with microsatellite instability
Benzotrichloride, also known as trichlorotoluene is an organic compound with the formula C6H5CCl3.
It is principally used as an intermediate in the preparation of other chemical products such as dyes.
Bile acids are steroid acids found predominantly in the bile of mammals.
They are produced in the liver by the oxidation of cholesterol, and are stored in gallbladder and secreted into the intestine in the form of salts.
They act as surfactants, emulsifying lipids and assisting with their absorption and digestion.
Synthesis of bile acids is a major consumer of cholesterol.
The body synthesizes about 800 mg of cholesterol per day and about half of that is used for bile acid synthesis.
In total about 20-30 grams of bile acids are secreted into the intestine daily; about 90% of excreted bile acids are reabsorbed (by active transport in the ileum) and recycled.
This is referred to as the enterohepatic circulation.
Since bile acids are made from endogenous cholesterol, the enterohepatic circulation of bile acids may be disrupted as a way to lower cholesterol.
This is the mechanism of action behind bile acid sequestrants.
IC-26 (methiodone) is a methadone analogue with IUPAC name 4-ethylsulfonyl-N,N-dimethyl-4,4- diphenylbutan-2-amine.
It is an opioid agonist that has been identified as a street drug .
Flavin mononucleotide (FMN) and flavin adenine dinucleotide (FAD) are both synthesized from riboflavin (vitamin B2).
FMN and FAD are co-factors in important cellular processess, including energy and lipid metabolism, redox signaling, programmed cell death, and growth regulation.
Disturbances in the availability of riboflavin, its conversion to FMN and FAD, and the association of FMN and FAD with flavoenzymes can significantly affect the metabolism of folate, pyridoxine, vitamin K, niacin, and ascorbate and lead to skeletal and central nervous system structural changes.
Measuring FMN and FAD and determining the FAD to FMN ratio may help distinguish between various disorders of flavin synthesis and transport.
Propanoic acid (also named propionic acid) is a naturally-occurring carboxylic acid with chemical formula CH3CH2COOH.
It is a clear liquid with a pungent odor.
The anion CH3CH2COO− as well as the salts and esters of propanoic acid are known as propanoates (or propionates).
Mutations in the MLH1, MSH2, MSH6, and PMS2 genes, which are involved in DNA mismatch repair, are associated with hereditary nonpolyposis colorectal cancer (HNPCC), an autosomal dominant cancer syndrome that confers an elevated risk of early-onset colorectal cancer (CRC).
Patients with HNPCC also have an increased lifetime risk for other cancers of the endometrium, stomach, small intestine, hepatobiliary system, kidney, ureter, and ovary.
HNPCC is most often associated with mutations in the MLH1 and MSH2 genes.
Hormonal substance produced by the right atrium of the heart that stimulates excretion of sodium and water by the kidneys and helps regulate blood pressure
UDP-glucuronosyltransferase 1-1 also known as UGT-1A is an enzyme that in humans is encoded by the UGT1A1 gene.
UDP-glucuronosyltransferase enzymes are part of the glucuronidation pathway that transforms small lipophilic molecules, such as irinotecan, into water-soluble, excretable metabolites.
Reduced hepatic UGT1A1 activity to approximately 30% of normal is a hallmark of Gilbert syndrome, a benign condition characterized by mild unconjugated hyperbilirubinemia.
Individuals with Gilbert syndrome may experience transient elevations in unconjugated plasma bilirubin in response to various triggers (e.g., fasting, infection, or medications).
Genotypes most commonly implicated in Gilbert syndrome are UGT1A1*28/*28 and UGT1A1*6/*6.
Genetic variations in UGT1A1 can also affect the response (i.e., efficacy or toxicity) to drugs metabolized by UGT1A1 (e.g., irintotecan) or that inhibit UGT1A1 function (e.g., atazanavir).
Selection of alternative dosing or agents may be necessary in individuals with certain UGT1A1 genetic variations.
Venous invasion (VI) is a well-established prognostic indicator in colorectal cancers and associated with an increase in risk of distant metastases.
VI can be classified as either intramural venous invasion (IMVI) or extramural venous invasion (EMVI).
IMVI is when a tumor cells are confined to veins within the bowel wall.
EMVI is when tumor cells are present in veins outside the bowel wall.
Either one or both may be present.
The presence of EMVI is a strong predictor of adverse outcome.
The most important House dust mites are Dermatophagoides pteronyssinus and (in drier areas)
In subtropical and tropical regions the Storage mite Blomia tropicalis is also a major source of allergens, co-existing with D. pteronyssinus.
Recent evidence shows that even these very general boundaries are blurring, and in many instances all 3 mite species may be highly relevant, causing widespread sensitization.
But D. pteronyssinus is especially important because its distribution is for all practical purposes worldwide.
Wall pellitory is a common weed around the Mediterranean and along the West coast of Europe as far north as central England.
It is found in Spain, Greece, Italy and Israel, and has been introduced in other parts of Western Europe and in Australia and Argentina.
Two closely related species are found in the US and one in Brazil.
The genus Parietaria has about 10 species, which are highly cross-reactive to each other.
Parietaria pollen allergens (officinalis, judaica, lusitanica, creatica) are one of the most common causes of pollinosis in areas where the plants grow.
A close correlation exists between the species P. judaica and P. officinalis.
In some geographical areas one species may dominate, and IgE antibodies to only one of the species can be found in sensitised individuals.
Wall pellitory pollen has been recognised as an important allergen, causing symptoms of asthma, allergic rhinitis and allergic conjunctivitis.
Rhinoconjunctivitis and bronchial asthma, alone or in association, represent the most common clinical manifestations of this allergy.
Cannabicyclohexanol (CCH, CP 47,497 dimethyloctyl homologue, (C8)-CP 47,497) is a cannabinoid receptor agonist drug, developed by Pfizer in 1979.
JWH-018 (1-pentyl-3-(1-naphthoyl)indole) or AM-678 is an analgesic chemical from the naphthoylindole family that acts as a full agonist at both the CB1 and CB2 cannabinoid receptors, with some selectivity for CB2.
It produces effects in animals similar to those of THC, a cannabinoid naturally present in cannabis, leading to its use in synthetic cannabis products such as "legal cannabis herbal incense blends" which in some countries are sold legally as "incense", labeled "not for human consumption.
Chemokine (C-C motif) ligand 18 (CCL18) is a small cytokine belonging to the CC chemokine family that was previously called PARC (pulmonary and activation-regulated chemokine).
CCL18 is approximately 60% identical in amino acid sequence to CCL3.
It is expressed at high levels in lung and at lower levels in certain lymphoid tissues, such as the lymph nodes, and is chemotactic for activated T cells and nonactivated lymphocytes.
The gene for human CCL18 contains three exons and is located on chromosome 17.
Clusterin (apolipoprotein J) is a 75 - 80 kDa disulfide-linked heterodimeric protein associated with the clearance of cellular debris and apoptosis.
In humans, clusterin is encoded by the CLU gene.
This protein has several synonyms: dimeric acidic glycoprotein (DAG protein), testosterone repressed prostate message-2 (TRPM-2), sulfated glycoprotein-2 (SGP-2) and complement lysis inhibitor (CLI).
Two studies found a statistical association between a SNP within the clusterin gene and the risk of having Alzheimer's disease.
Further studies have suggested that people who already have Alzheimer's disease have more clusterin in their blood, and that clusterin levels in blood correlate with faster cognitive decline in individuals with Alzheimer's disease, but have not found that clusterin levels predicted the onset of Alzheimer's disease.
Brompheniramine (Bromfed, Dimetapp, Bromfenex, Dimetane, BPN, Lodrane) is an antihistamine drug of the propylamine (alkylamine) class.
It is readily available over the counter and is indicated for the treatment of the symptoms of the common cold and allergic rhinitis, such as runny nose, itchy eyes, watery eyes, and sneezing.
It is a first-generation antihistamine.
The amount of foods containing little or no nutritive value other than energy consumed.
Most empty-calorie foods are highly processed foods that typically contain solid fats, or fats that are solid at room temperature.
Many processed foods also contain added sugars, like high fructose corn syrup or white sugar that has been added to beverages or food.
2,8 dihydroxyadenine (DHA) is formed from adenine and elevated levels of DHA are associated with adenine phosphoribosyl transferase (APRT) deficiency, a rare metabolic disorder.
Typically adenine is metabolized by ART, but when ART is deficient, adenine is converted to DHA by another enzyme, xanthine dehydrogenase.
DHA is cleared by the kidney and excreted in urine, but because it is insoluble in urine, it precipitates as crystals that can aggregate and form kidney stones.
DHA crystals can also precipitate within the renal tubules and interstitium and cause severe renal damage.
Cytochrome-b5 reductase (also known as methemoglobin reductase) is a NADH-dependent enzyme that converts methemoglobin to hemoglobin.
White elm can be found mostly in forests in central and eastern North America, where it represents a major source of pollen.
White elm is native to North America and has a wide range, from all of the eastern states through the Central Plains.
White elm pollen can induce asthma, allergic rhinitis and allergic conjunctivitis
A general class of ortho-dihydroxyphenylalkylamines derived from tyrosine.
Propane is a three-carbon alkane, normally a gas, but compressible to a transportable liquid.
It is derived from other petroleum products during oil or natural gas processing.
It is commonly used as a fuel for engines, oxy-gas torches, barbecues, portable stoves and residential central heating.
The P237T mutation is associated with Adefovir resistance
Sodium (Na) is a positively charged electrolyte and a mineral.
Eighty-five percent of Na is located in the blood and lymph fluid.
The hormone aldosterone that is secreted by the adrenal glands helps to regulate Na levels by signaling the kidneys to either retain or secrete it.
Damage or disease to the kidneys can lead to dangerous fluctuations of sodium.
Na plays a number of key roles in the homeostasis of the human body.
It helps to maintain blood volume by osmotically pulling water into the blood vessels.
Too much sodium in the blood may cause too much water to be brought into the blood vessels and lead to high blood pressure.
Muscles and nerves conduct electrical impulses that require charged particles including Na.
The electrical currents cause muscle cells to contract and nerve cells to relay electrical signals between them.
Too little sodium can lead to muscle spasms, cramps, headache, irritability, restlessness, nausea and fatigue.
Extreme hyponatremia can lead to confusion, hallucinations, decreased consciousness and coma.
Conversely, hypernatremia can cause lethargy or restlessness, deep tendon reflexes, muscle spasticity and seizures.
Zolmitriptan is a selective serotonin receptor agonist of the 1B and 1D subtypes.
It is a triptan, used in the acute treatment of migraine attacks with or without aura and cluster headaches.
Immature granulocytes include metamyelocytes, myelocytes and promyelocytes but not the more mature cells such as bands nor the less mature cells such as blasts.
Automaeted counting machines can produce a number that would be the sum of these three cell types.
A white threadlike worm which causes elephantiasis, lymphangitis, and chyluria by interfering with the lymphatic circulation.
The microfilaria are found in the circulating blood and are carried by mosquitoes.
A class of fibrous proteins or scleroproteins important both as structural proteins and as keys to the study of protein conformation.
The family represents the principal constituent of epidermis, hair, nails, horny tissues, and the organic matrix of tooth enamel.
Two major conformational groups have been characterized, alpha-keratin, whose peptide backbone forms an alpha-helix, and beta-keratin, whose backbone forms a zigzag or pleated sheet structure.
The Manufacturing establisment information (MEI) includes the establishment name and address, its Unique Facility Identifier (UFI), contact information for the person responsible for scheduling inspections and information about the manufacturing operations being conducted at theat establishment.
A filarial parasite primarily of dogs but occurring also in foxes, wolves, and humans.
The parasite is transmitted by mosquitoes.
Direct or indirect contact with Pigeon allergens frequently causes sensitisation.
Pigeon allergens may be major components in house dust.
Pigeon breeder's disease (PBD) has been found in 6-21% of breeders, the figure differing from country to country.
Electrooculography (EOG) is a technique for measuring the resting potential of the retina.
The EOG is used to assess the function of the pigment epithelium.
During dark adaptation, the resting potential decreases slightly and reaches a minimum ("dark trough" or "Dt") after several minutes.
When the light is switched on, a substantial increase of the resting potential occurs ("light peak" or "Lp"), which drops off after a few minutes when the retina adapts to the light.
The ratio of the voltages (i.e., light peak divided by dark trough) is known as the Arden ratio and is normally above 1.80.
The Arden ratio is often abnormal in retinitis pigmentosa, diabetic retinopathy, detached retina, Best disease and many other eye disorders.
Ki-67 nuclear antigen is a marker of cell proliferation.
In breast cancer specimens, the degree of Ki-67 staining, assessed using MIB-1, a monoclonal antibody, is associated with the degree of proliferation.
In general, tumors with higher degrees of proliferation are associated with worse prognosis.
While the baseline degree of Ki-67 staining may not be predictive, the change in the proportion of Ki-67 positive cells before and after therapy may be predictive of disease-free and overall survival.
JAK2 gene encodes a protein tyrosine kinase that adds a phosphate group to many cellular proteins responsible for signal transduction in a variety of cells.
The JAK2 V617F point mutation causes the activation of these pathways, leading to uncontrolled cell proliferation, resulting in myeloproliferative disorders.
This mutation is seen in most patients with polycythemia vera and about half of the patients with essential thrombocytosis, thrombocythemia and idiopathic myelofibrosis.
The V617F mutation has also been found in some patients with Philadelphia chromosome negative chronic myelogenous leukemia (CML), chronic myelomonocytic leukemia (CMML), chronic neutrophilic leukemia, megakaryocytic leukemia, and some patients with myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS).
Oxypurinol is an inhibitor of xanthine oxidase.
It is an active metabolite of allopurinol and it is cleared renally.
In cases of renal disease, this metabolite will accumulate to toxic levels.
The SDHB gene (succinate dehydrogenase complex, subunit B, iron sulfur (Ip)) is located on chromosome 1p36.1-p35.
Complex II of the respiratory chain, which is specifically involved in the oxidation of succinate, carries electrons from FADH to CoQ.
The complex is composed of four nuclear-encoded subunits and is localized in the mitochondrial inner membrane.
The iron-sulfur subunit is highly conserved and contains three cysteine-rich clusters which may comprise the iron-sulfur centers of the enzyme.
Sporadic and familial mutations in this gene result in paragangliomas and pheochromocytoma, and support a link between mitochondrial dysfunction and tumorigenesis.
Semisynthetic, broad-spectrum, ampicillin-derived ureidopenicillin antibiotic usually used for pseudomonas infections.
It is also used in combination with other antibiotics such as tazobactam.
The RYR1 gene (ryanodine receptor 1 (skeletal)) is located on chromosome 19q13.1.
This gene encodes a ryanodine receptor found in skeletal muscle.
The encoded protein functions as a calcium release channel in the sarcoplasmic reticulum but also serves to connect the sarcoplasmic reticulum and transverse tubule.
Mutations in this gene are associated with malignant hyperthermia susceptibility, central core disease, and minicore myopathy with external ophthalmoplegia.
Alternatively spliced transcripts encoding different isoforms have been described.
The salivary glands produce saliva, which keeps the mouth and other parts of the digestive system moist.
It also helps break down carbohydrates (with salivary amylase, formerly known as ptyalin) and lubricates the passage of food down from the oro-pharynx to the esophagus to the stomach.
There are three main pairs of salivary glands: the parotid, the submandibular and the sublingual glands.
There are also many small glands in the tongue, cheeks, lips and palate, all of which consist entirely of mucous secreting cells (see Histology below) except for the serous glands of von Ebner, which reside within the moats surrounding the circumvallate papillae in the posterior 13 of the tongue, anterior to the terminal sulcus.
A birth certificate is an official form or record that includes information on the time and place of a person's birth, his or her name, sex, mother's name and usually the father's name.
Recombinant non-glycosylated protein produced in an E. coli strain strain carrying a cloned cDNA encoding Prunus persica allergen
An occupational allergen, which may frequently induce hayfever, asthma and conjunctivitis in sensitised individuals.
Subtilisins are proteolytic enzymes of bacterial origin used in the manufacture of washing detergents.
Maxatase is one of these enzymes; Alcalase, Esperase and Savinase are 3 others.
These enzymes may also be found in various foods.
The enzymes are all produced using species of Bacillus.
Maxatase and Alcalase (which have sometimes been considered virtually interchangeable) come from B. licheniformis.
The volume of fluid used to flush the patient's feeding tube.
The hepatitis B surface antigen (HBsAg) is most frequently used to screen for the presence of this infection.
It is the first detectable viral antigen to appear during infection.
However, early in an infection, this antigen may not be present and it may be undetectable later in the infection as it is being cleared by the host.
The infectious virion contains an inner "core particle" enclosing viral genome.
The icosahedral core particle is made of 180 or 240 copies of core protein, alternatively known as hepatitis B core antigen, or HBcAg.
During this 'window' in which the host remains infected but is successfully clearing the virus, IgM antibodies to the hepatitis B core antigen (anti-HBc IgM) may be the only serological evidence of disease.
Therefore most hepatitis B diagnostic panels contain HBsAg and total anti-HBc(both IgM and IgG).
CD28 is one of the molecules expressed on T cells that provide co-stimulatory signals, which are required for T cell activation.
CD28 is the receptor for B7.1 (CD80) and B7.2 (CD86).
When activated by Toll-like receptor ligands, the B7.1 expression is upregulated in antigen presenting cells (APCs).
The B7.2 expression on antigen presenting cells is constitutive.
CD28 is the only B7 receptor constitutively expressed on naive T cells.
Stimulation through CD28 in addition to the TCR can provide a potent co-stimulatory signal to T cells for the production of various interleukins (IL-2 and IL-6 in particular).
Prolactin is an anterior pituitary hormone encoded by the PRL gene, synthesized and secreted by lactotrope cells in the adenohypophysis.
It is also produced in other tissues including the breast and the decidua.
Pituitary prolactin secretion is regulated by neuroendocrine neurons in the hypothalamus, most importantly by neurosecretory dopamine neurons of the arcuate nucleus, which inhibit prolactin secretion.
Prolactin levels may be checked as part of a sex hormone workup, as elevated prolactin secretion can suppress the secretion of FSH and GnRH, leading to hypogonadism, and sometimes causing erectile dysfunction in men.
Prolactin measurement may also be of use in distinguishing epileptic seizures from psychogenic non-epileptic seizures, as serum prolactin level usually rises following an epileptic seizure.
The 14-3-3 protein is a highly conserved family of proteins that was originally found in brain tissue in 1968.
There are seven isoforms of 14-3-3 protein in mammals which are found in all eukaryotic cells.
The proteins weigh between 25 and 30 kilo Daltons and interact with more than 200 target proteins.
14-3-3 proteins are able to easily move between the cytoplasm and the nucleus but are mainly found in the cytoplasm.
14-3-3 is an important regulator of cellular function including controlling the cycle of the cell, cell growth, differentiation, survival, apoptosis, migration and spreading.
The isoform 14-3-3o is believed to have a role in human cancer development.
Teicoplanin is an antibiotic used in the prophylaxis and treatment of serious infections caused by Gram-positive bacteria.
It is a glycopeptide antiobiotic extracted from Actinoplanes teichomyceticus, with a similar spectrum of activity to vancomycin.
Teicoplanin is marketed by Aventis under the trade name Targocid ®.
Oral teicoplanin has been demonstrated to be effective in the treatment of pseudomembranous colitis and Clostridium difficile -associated diarrhoea, with comparable efficacy to vancomycin.
Olea europaea, the Olive tree, is one of the most important causes of seasonal respiratory allergy in the Mediterranean area and also in other parts of the world where this tree is now grown.
Ole e 1 exhibits a high degree of polymorphism and is present in Olive tree pollen in 2 main forms, glycosylated and nonglycosylated, with apparent molecular masses of 20 and 18.5 kDa, respectively.
nOle e 1 is actually a mixture of polypeptides with different glycosylation patterns.
Of the many allergens isolated and characterised from Olive pollen, Ole e 1 is the most frequent sensitising agent, affecting more than 70% of patients with sensitisation to Olive pollen.
Coumarin derivative that acts as a long acting oral anticoagulant.
A urinary anti-infective agent effective against most gram-positive and gram-negative organisms.
Although sulfonamides and antibiotics are usually the agents of choice for urinary tract infections, nitrofurantoin is widely used for prophylaxis and long-term suppression.
An effective soil fumigant, insecticide, and nematocide.
In humans, it causes severe burning of skin and irritation of the eyes and respiratory tract.
Prolonged inhalation may cause liver necrosis.
It is also used in gasoline.
Members of this group have caused liver and lung cancers in rodents.
According to the Fourth Annual Report on Carcinogens (NTP 85-002, 1985), 1,2-dibromoethane may reasonably be anticipated to be a carcinogen.
This Storage mite of the Glycyphagidae family, also known as Furniture mite, is found in foods and grains in warehouses and other storage areas.
In homes, it thrives in infested foodstuffs and in damp areas, where it feeds on molds.
The Storage mite G. domesticus may commonly induce symptoms of asthma and rhinoconjunctivitis in sensitised individuals.
CD27 and CD45RA are both lymphocyte cell surface markers that can be used to classify T-cells into various subsets.
Expression of CD27 is characteristic of naive T-cells and some subsets of memory T-cells, while lack of CD27 is characteristic of effector T-cells.. CD45RA is characteristic of resting or naive T-cells.
Cells expressing both CD27+CD45RA+ are undifferentiated (naive), CD27+CD45RA- T-cells are at an early stage of differentiation and exhibit characteristics of memory T cells, whereas CD27-CD45RA- T-cells are highly differentiated and have characteristics of both memory and effector T-cells.
ESAT-6, the 6 kDa early secretory antigenic target of Mycobacterium tuberculosis, is a secretory protein and potent T cell antigen.
It is used in tuberculosis diagnosis by whole blood interferon γ tests, e.g. QuantiFERON-TB Gold and T-SPOT.TB, in conjunction with CFP-10 and TB7.7 (QuantiFERON-TB Gold).
ESAT-6 has been shown to directly bind to the TLR2 receptor, inhibiting downstream signal transduction.
Colorless elongated needles, or flat rectangular plates.
Associated with increased specific gravity >1.040 due to recent X-ray procedures.
Methemalbumin is an albumin complex consisting of albumin and heme This complex gives brown color to plasma and occurs in hemolytic and hemorrhagic disorders.
Its presence in plasma is used to differentiate between hemorrhagic and edematous pancreatitis.
An imperfect fungus causing smut or black mold of several fruits, vegetables, etc.
Myoclonic epilepsy associated with ragged red fibers (MERRF) gene mutation causes a G to A point mutation at base pair 8344 in the mitochondrial tRNA lysine (MTTK) gene.
The Liver Isoenzyme fraction of the total alkaline phosphatase.
Elevated levels are observed in patients with hepatobliary disease, such as accute hepatitis, cirrhosis, liver obstruction or hepatic carcinoma.
After megakaryocytes discharge the cytoplasm to form platelets, megakaryocyte nuclei or nuclear fragments may enter the peripheral blood stream, particularly in conditions associated with marrow myelofibrosis.
The nucleus is single-lobed or multi-lobed.
Chromatin is smudged and surrounded by a very scant amount of basophilic cytoplasm or no cytoplasm at all.
The HNA 2 system has one allele - HNA-2a, which is expressed only on subpopulations of neutrophils and neutrophil precursors (CD177).
The expression of HNA-2a is greater in women than men.
It is also greater in pregnant women than in healthy female donors.
The number of pacemaker wires attached to the atrium of the heart.
Beta aminoisobutyric acid (BAIB) is a nonprotein amino acid that is an end product of pyrimidine metabolism.
The R and S enantiomers (previously named D-(minus)-BAIB and L-plus-BAIB) are produced from thymine and L-valine, respectively.
Under normal circumstances, urine contains predominantly R-BAIB (from thymine) because it is eliminated by filtration and tubular secretion, while plasma contains about 80% S-BAIB (from valine), which is reabsorbed in the kidneys.
In patients with dihydropyrimidine dehydrogenase deficiency, thymine catabolism is decreased, which results in moderately decreased CSF concentration and markedly decreased plasma concentration of BAIB.
On the other hand, urine BAIB is elevated despite decreased breakdown of thymine, which indicates that there must be cross-over in the thymine and valine degradation pathways.
Deficiency of D-beta-aminoisobutyrate:pyruvate aminotransferase, an enzyme that is involved in the catabolism R-BAIB, also results in elevated urine BAIB and is associated with hyperuricemia.
Sucrose is broken down into its constituent monosaccharides, glucose and fructose, which are rapidly absorbed into the bloodstream.
Sucrose provides a quick source of energy, followed by a rapid rise in blood glucose upon ingestion.
Overconsumption has been linked with adverse health effects, including tooth decay, diabetes mellitus, obesity, and gout.
Increased levels of sucrose in urine may be caused by disturbances of intensinal absorbtion, such as in celiac disease, cystic fibrosis, and gastroenteritis.
The NBN gene (nibrin) is located on chromosome 8q21.
Mutations in this gene are associated with Nijmegen breakage syndrome, an autosomal recessive chromosomal instability syndrome characterized by microcephaly, growth retardation, immunodeficiency, and cancer predisposition.
The encoded protein is a member of the MRE11/RAD50 double-strand break repair complex which consists of 5 proteins.
This gene product is thought to be involved in DNA double-strand break repair and DNA damage-induced checkpoint activation.
Apolipoprotein CIII (ApoCIII) is an 8.8-kDa polypeptide with three isoforms, each of which have a single core 1 mucin type O-glycosylate protein.
When a defect occurs in the Golgi apparatus, mucin type O-glycosylation is impaired and results in one of the over 100 inherited metabolic disorders that are known collectively as congenital disorders of glycosylation (CDG).
ApoCIII isoform analysis, which includes the apolipoprotein CIII-0/apolipoprotein CIII-2 ratio and the apolipoprotein CIII-1/apolipoprotein CIII-2 ratio, is one of the screening tests for CDG.
The levels of the ratios will change if the defect in the Golgi apparatus is present.
CDG are characterized by an array of multi-systemic disorders that include developmental delay, hypotonia, with or without neurological abnormalities, abnormal magnetic resonance imaging findings, skin manifestations, and coagulopathy.
CDG varies widely in its severity ranging from a mild to severe presentation.
Norfentanyl is a metabolite of Fentanyl, a narcotic analgesic.
Fentanyl is used in transmucosal form to treat breakthrough cancer pain.
Occupational allergen mix 6 (pax6) detects chloramin T (k85), ethylene oxide (k78), formaldehyde (k80), and phthalic anhydride (k79) IgE antibodies.
Testing for IgE antibodies may be used to help diagnose an allergic disease or the cause of an anaphylactic episode in a patient.
Enzyme and fluorescent-based assays, which were preceded by the RAST test (Radio-AllergoSorbent Test), are performed to detect allergen-specific IgE in the patient's serum.
A hexosaminidase with specificity for terminal non-reducing N-acetyl-D-galactosamine residues in N-acetyl-alpha-D-galactosaminides.
The TFB1M gene (transcription factor B1, mitochondrial) is located on chromosome 6q25.1-q25.3.
The protein encoded by this gene is a dimethyltransferase that methylates the conserved stem loop of mitochondrial 12S rRNA.
The encoded protein also is part of the basal mitochondrial transcription complex and is necessary for mitochondrial gene expression.
The methylation and transcriptional activities of this protein are independent of one another.
Variations in this gene may influence the severity of aminoglycoside-induced deafness (AID).
Maribavir (originally named 1263W94) is an experimental oral antiviral drug candidate licensed by ViroPharma from GlaxoSmithKline in 2003 for the prevention and treatment of human cytomegalovirus (HCMV) disease in hematopoietic stem cell/bone marrow transplant patients.
Ceruloplasmin is a glycoprotein in which copper is transported.
Elevated values occur in the acute phase of Wilson's disease; oral contraceptives may cause elevated levels of ceruloplasmin.
Fraxinus pennsylvanica (Green Ash or Red Ash) is a species of ash native to eastern and central North America, from Nova Scotia west to southeastern Alberta and eastern Colorado, south to northern Florida, and southwest to eastern Texas.
Gentamicin is an aminoglycoside antibiotic, which has a bactericidal mode of action binding to the ribosome and various ribozymes to inhibit protein synthesis.
Gentamicin is a hydrophilic molecule and is considered to have limited capacity to penetrate eukaryotic cells.
Administered intravenously or intramuscularly, gentamicin is used to treat many bacterial infections, particularly gram-negative organisms such as meningitis, and infections of the blood, abdomen, lungs, skin, bones, joints and urinary tract, and is often used to treat severe cases of tularemia and the plague.
The effect of gentamicin is mediated through the production of reactive oxygen species (ROS), which causes destablization of iron-sulfur (Fe-S) clusters and generates toxic, bactericidal compounds through the Fenton reaction.
Gentamicin may cause kidney, nerve and severe hearing problems.
More common side effects include nausea, headache, fever, rash and hoarseness.
The factor II prothrombin 20210A mutation is a common genetic risk factor for thrombosis; it is associated with increased prothrombin levels.
Increased prothrombin levels lead to increased thrombin generation and thus more fibrin clots.
It is an autosomal dominant disorder, with heterozygotes having a 3-11 fold increased risk for thrombosis.
Information from ARUP Laboratories 2007 01 08
Bictegravir is a drug used to treat human immunodeficiency virus (HIV).
It is an integrase inhibitor which prevents HIV from replicating.
There is some evidence that suggests bictegravir could be effective on strains of HIV that have become resistant to other HIV drugs.
A pharmaceutical, which may result in allergy symptoms in sensitised individuals.
Protamines are proteins that, in nature, are bound to nuclear material in fish sperm heads
The asparaginyl-tRNA synthetase 2, mitochondrial (NARS2) gene is a protein-coding gene and located on the long arm (q) of chromosome 11 at position 14.1.
Diseases associated with NARS2 include inclusion conjunctivitis and conjunctivitis.
Transcobalamins are carrier proteins which bind cobalamin (B12).
There are 2 types 1.
Transcobalamin I (TCN1), also known as haptocorrin, R-factor, and R-protein, is a glycoprotein produced by the salivary glands of the mouth.
It primarily serves to protect cobalamin (Vitamin B12) from acid degradation in the stomach by producing a Haptocorrin-Vitamin B12 complex.
Once the complex has traveled to the more neutral duodenum, pancreatic proteases degrade haptocorrin, releasing free cobalamin, which now binds to intrinsic factor for absorption by ileal enterocytes.
2. Transcobalamin II (TCN2) binds cobalamin once it has been uptaken by enterocytes of the terminal ileum and the "Intrinsic Factor-Vitamin B12" complex has been degraded.
The TCII-Vit B12 complex then enters portal circulation and is processed in the liver.
SCCmec, or staphylococcal cassette chromosome mec, is a mobile genetic element of Staphylococcus bacterial species.
This genetic sequence includes the mecA gene coding for resistance to the antibiotic methicillin and is the only known way for Staphylococcus strains to spread the gene in the wild by horizontal gene transfer.
Biotinidase is a human enzyme coded for by the BTD gene.
It facilitates the use and recycling of the B vitamin biotin, sometimes called vitamin H. It removes biotin from food because biotin is needed in its free form.
Biotinidase also recycles biotin from certain enzymes, known as carboxylases.
These enzymes are important in the processing of fats, carbohydrates and proteins.
Biotin is attached to the carboxylases through an amino acid called lysine, forming a complex called biocytin.
Biotinidase removes biotin from biocytin and makes it available to be reused by other enzymes.
Mutations in the BTD gene cause biotinidase deficiency.
Approximately 100 mutations in the BTD gene that lead to biotinidase deficiency have been discovered.
These mutations either prevent the enzyme from being made or cause the enzyme that is produced to be nonfunctional.
Grey alder is the most widely distributed Alder in Europe and western North America.
Alder pollen is a significant cause of asthma, allergic rhinitis and allergic conjunctivitis, in particular in springtime in Middle and Northern Europe, and in conjunction with Birch and Hazel pollen.
4-Hydroxymandelic acid is an acidic metabolite of p-octopamine and p-synephrine (p-phenylephrine).
It is also a naturally occurring metabolite of tyramine.
A specific enantiomer of p-hydroxymandelic aicd ((R)-(-)-p-hydroxymandelic -- also called pisolithin B) has been shown to exhibit antifungal properties.
Elevation of one or more organic acids is diagnostic for an organic aciduria.
Suberic acid is a dicarboxylic acid and is a fatty acid metabolite.
Elevated levels occur with fatty oxidation defects including Beta-oxidation defects (MAD, MCAD, SCAD, LCAD, SCHAD, LCHAD/TFP), HMG-CoA lyase deficiency, systemic carnitine deficiency, succinic semialdehyde DH deficiency, CPT II deficiency, peroxisomal diseases, glycogen storage disorders I & II, lactic acidosis, and fructose intolerance.
(Information from: Kumps A, Duez P, Mardens Y. Metabolic, Nutritional, Iatrogenic, and Artifactual Sources of Urinary Organic Acids: A Comprehensive Table.
Mixing studies are tests performed on blood plasma used to distinguish factor deficiencies from factor inhibitors, such as lupus anticoagulants, or specific factor inhibitors, such as antibodies directed against factor VIII).
Mixing studies take advantage of the fact that factor levels that are 50 percent of normal should give a normal PT or PTT result.
Proteus sp. is a genus of rod shaped bacteria characterized by their intensive swarming growth.
They are opportunistic pathogens and can be found in urine, feces, wounds, and other clinical sources.
Hosts for Proteus sp. include: flies, fish, wild and domestic animals.
Proteus sp. presence in soil, is a sign of fecal pollution and poses a risk of water and seafood contamination.
Serological and molecular testing are used to determine the specific Proteus sp. strain.
Proteus sp. strains can cause a range of illnesses from diarrhea, kidney stones and respiratory tract infections to meningitis.
Maize/Corn pollen (Zea mays)
g202 must be differentiated from Maize/Corn (Zea mays) f8, the food.
A grass species producing pollen, which may induce hayfever, asthma and conjunctivitis in sensitised individuals.
The prototypical antimalarial agent with a mechanism that is not well understood.
It has also been used to treat rheumatoid arthritis, systemic lupus erythematosus, and in the systemic therapy of amebic liver abscesses.
Amphoteric macrolide antifungal antibiotic from Streptomyces natalensis or S. chattanoogensis.
It is used for a variety of fungal infections, mainly topically.
Distance from Sella to Gonion
An element that is a member of the chalcogen family.
It has the atomic symbol Te, atomic number 52, and atomic weight 127.60.
It has been used as a coloring agent and in the manufacture of electrical equipment.
Exposure may cause nausea, vomiting, and CNS depression.
The provider responsible for a patient's medicine monitoring regimen or therapy.
The prescriber of the medication is not necessarily the same person or persons monitoring the drug.
For example, a cardiologist may prescribe a patient a drug, and the person designated to monitor the drug is the primary care provider.
PDW=the distribution width at the 20% level when the peak is equivalent to 100%.
Used as a plasma expander, in plasma exchange and for pulmonary perfusion scan (technetium 99 m labeled human albumin microspheres).
A cyclohexanone derivative used for induction of anesthesia.
Its mechanism of action is not well understood, but ketamine can block NMDA receptors (RECEPTORS, N-METHYL-D-ASPARTATE) and may interact with sigma receptors.
The Lime is native to the Indo-Malayan region.
It was unknown in Europe before the Crusades.
From Europe, it was introduced into the Caribbean islands and Mexico.
It is now grown in tropical regions almost throughout the world, particularly in Florida.
There are two main types of this small, lemon-shaped green citrus fruit: the acidic (the chief kinds being Persian Limes and Mexican or Key Limes), which is commercially grown, and the sweet, which is uncommon in North America.
Limes have been crossed with other types of citrus.
Porcine parvovirus (PPV) causes reproductive failure of swine characterized by embryonic and fetal infection and death, usually in the absence of outward maternal clinical signs.
The disease develops mainly when seronegative dams are exposed oronasally to the virus anytime during about the first half of gestation, and conceptuses are subsequently infected transplacentally before they become immunocompetent.
There is no definitive evidence that infection of swine other than during gestation is of any clinical or economic significance.
The virus is ubiquitous among swine throughout the world and is enzootic in most herds that have been tested.
Diagnostic surveys have indicated that PPV is the major infectious cause of embryonic and fetal death.
In addition to its direct causal role in reproductive failure, PPV can potentiate the effects of porcine circovirus type II (PCV2) infection in the clinical course of postweaning multisystemic wasting syndrome (PMWS)
CD163, also known asM130; HbSR; RM3/1 antigen.
A glycoprotein endocytic scavenger receptor for haptoglobin-hemoglobin complexes.
Found specifically on monocytes/macrophages and some dendritic cells.
Involved in anti-iflammatory processes.
Soluble form shed upon Toll-like receptor activation.
The OCA2 gene (oculocutaneous albinism II) is located on chromosome 15q.
This gene encodes the human homolog of the mouse p (pink-eyed dilution) gene.
The encoded protein is believed to be an integral membrane protein involved in small molecule transport, specifically tyrosine, which is a precursor to melanin synthesis.
It is involved in mammalian pigmentation, where it may control skin color variation and act as a determinant of brown or blue eye color.
Mutations in this gene result in type 2 oculocutaneous albinism.
Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants.
Aminohippuric acid or para-aminohippuric acid (PAH), a derivative of hippuric acid, is a diagnostic agent useful in medical tests involving the kidney used in the measurement of renal plasma flow.
It is an amide derivative of the amino acid glycine and para-aminobenzoic acid.
Chlamydia trachomatis L1 is the microorganism that causes lymphogranuloma venereum (LGV).
Symptoms of infection include tender inguinal and/or femoral lymphadenopathy which is usually unilateral.
Occasionally, a self-limiting genital ulcer appears at the inoculation site.
If left untreated, LGV can develop into an invasive, systemic infection.
Infection of the rectum and colon can lead to chronic colorectal fistulas and strictures.
Several pieces of data are used to diagnose LGV including the suspicion of the clinician, epidemiologic information, and the exclusion of other etiologies for proctocolitis, inguinal lymphadenopathy, or genital or rectal ulcers.
Laboratory tests are also useful to diagnose LGV including Chlamydia trachomatis culture, direct immunofluorescence, or nucleic acid detection.
Anileridine (trade name: Leritine) is a new synthetic analgesic drug and is a member of the piperidine class of analgesic agents It differs from meperidine (Demerol) in that the N-methyl group of meperidine is replaced by an N-aminophenethyl group, which increase its analgesic activity.
Anileridine is no longer manufactured in the US or Canada.
Lysosomal acid lipase (LAL) is an enzyme that hydrolyzes cholesterol esters and triglycerides.
Decreased levels of LAL leads to two autosomal recessive disorders known as Wolman disease (WD) and Cholesteryl Ester Storage Disease (CESD).
Complete loss of the enzyme causes WD in infants who present with vomiting, diarrhea, poor weight gain and hepatomegaly subsequently leading to death.
Partial loss of LAL causes CESD with variable symptoms ranging from asymptomatic to gastrointestinal symptoms, hepatomegaly, elevated transaminases and dyslipidemia.
Fluoroacetate is similar to acetate, which has a pivotal role in cellular metabolism.
Fluoroacetate disrupts the citric acid cycle (also known as the Krebs cycle) by combining with coenzyme A to form fluoroacetyl CoA, which reacts with citrate synthase to produce fluorocitrate.
A metabolite of fluorocitrate binds very tightly to aconitase, thereby halting the citric acid cycle.
This inhibition results in an accumulation of citrate in the blood which deprives cells of energy.
Ole e 2, a 15-18 kDa protein, a profilin is a major allergen of olive pollen
Triprolidine (Actidil, Myidil,Actifed also in liquids) is an over-the-counter antihistamine with anticholinergic properties.
Used to combat the symptoms associated with allergies and is sometimes combined with other cold medications designed to provide general relief for flu-like symptoms.
The most common side effect is drowsiness.
Indocyanine green is a tricarbocyanine dye used diagnostically in liver function tests and to determine blood volume and cardiac output.
The indocyanine green clearance (IGC) is a sensitive indicator to evaluate liver function in patients with cirrhosis and as a predictor of successful hepatic resection in cirrhotic patients.
The rate of clearance of indocyanine green (IGC) dye by the patient's liver is determined by measuring the concentration of the dye in the patient's plasma at various times after a known amount of the dye is administered to the patient.
Torezolid (also known as TR-701 and now tedizolid) is an oxazolidinone drug being developed by Trius Therapeutics for complicated skin and skin-structure infections (cSSSI), including those caused by Methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA).
A plant species of the genus IPOMOEA, family CONVOLVULACEAE.
Some cultivars are sweet and edible whereas bitter varieties are a source of SAPONINS.
This sweet potato is sometimes referred to as a yam (DIOSCOREA).
17-Ketogenic steroid is a marker used in the measurement of androgen excretion in the urine.
Saunders Comprehensive Veterinary Dictionary, 3 ed.
A deletion of chromosome region 9q34 is associated with chronic myelogenous leukemia (CML).
Most patients with CML have the characteristic t(9;22) (q34;q11.2) translocation that results in fusion of the BCR and ABL1 genes.
A small subset of CML cases have the 9q34 deletion, which is associated with poor prognosis in CML patients under treatment with interferon therapy.
Fluorescence in situ Hybridization (FISH) is used to detect deletion of the 9q34 region around the argininosuccinate synthetase (ASS) gene.
Ambrosia deltoidea, also known as triangle bur ragweed, is a weed common in southern Arizona.
It is a "cousin" to ragweed and is associated with airborne contact dermatitis.
Skin patch testing can be used to identify sensitivity, though history of exposure is more commonly used in diagnosing an allergy to A. deltoidea.
The blood group Scianna antigens are located on the glycoprotein human erythroblast membrane protein (HERMAP) which is encoded by the erythrocyte membrane-associate protein (ERMAP).
The antigens that make up the Scianna blood group are Sc1, Sc2, Sc3 and Sc4 (Radin).
Sc1 and Sc3 phenotype are present in very high numbers in northern European populations (99%) while Sc2 and Sc4 phenotype are present in very low frequencies for the same population group (1%).
The Scianna antigens are found on erythrocytes with a decreased expression on leukocytes, thymus, lymph nodes, spleen, fetal liver and adult bone marrow.
Dehydroaripiprazole is the active metabolite of the parent drug aripiprazole which is used to treat acute schizophrenia and other psychoses.
Aripiprazole is metabolized to dehydroaripiprazole by the enzymes CYP3A4 and CYP2D6.
Dehydroaripiprazole binds with postsynaptic dopamine receptors and presynaptic autoreceptors, blocking dopamine from attaching to the receptors and preventing a postsynaptic response that is usually triggered by dopamine.
The blood levels of dehydroaripiprazole vary widely between patients who have taken the same dose of the drug.
Therapeutic monitoring is important to verify the patient's blood level is within the therapeutic range, to identify patients who are non-compliant in taking their medication, and to prevent drug toxicity.
An element with the atomic symbol N, atomic number 7, and atomic weight 14.
Nitrogen exists as a diatomic gas and makes up about 78% of the earth's atmosphere by volume.
It is a constituent of proteins and nucleic acids and found in all living cells.
A tamoxifen metabolite with both estrogenic and anti-estrogenic effects.
4-hydroxytamoxifen has a higher affinity for the estrogen receptor than tamoxifen, and functions as an antagonist in breast cancer cells.
An endotracheal tube (ETT) is an artificial tube that is placed through the mouth into the trachea to keep the airway open and protected and support breathing in patients who cannot breath on their own or are at risk of respiratory collapse.
ETTs come in different sizes for different types of patients (e.g. premature infant, child, adult), and using an appropriate ETT will ensure the most effective airway and ventilation support.
A narcotic antagonist with some agonist properties.
It is an antagonist at mu opioid receptors and an agonist at kappa opioid receptors.
Given alone it produces a broad spectrum of unpleasant effects and it is considered to be clinically obsolete.
JWH 210 N-(5-hydroxypentyl) metabolite is an expected metabolite of JWH 210, detectable in the serum and urine.
JWH-210 is an analgesic chemical from the naphthoylindole family, which acts as a potent cannabinoid agonist.
It is one of the most potent 4-substituted naphthoyl derivatives in the naphthoylindole series.
JWH-210 and JWH-122 were banned in Sweden on 1 October 2010 as hazardous goods harmful to health, after being identified as ingredients in "herbal" synthetic cannabis products.
The substances JWH-210, JWH-122 and JWH-203 were classified as illegal drugs by the Swedish government as of 1 September 2011.
ImmuKnow technology combines cell stimulation, cell selection, and quantification of metabolic markers (ATP) to measure cell-mediated immunity.
ImmuKnow measures early response to stimulation by detecting intracellular ATP synthesis in CD4 cells selected from blood by monoclonal antibody-coated magnetic beads.
The amount of ATP present in stimulated blood specimens is a measure of lymphocyte activity.
Since the CD4 lymphocytes orchestrate cell-mediated immunity responses through immunoregulatory signaling, the measurement of CD4 activation reflects the degree of immune function.
The ACADM gene (acyl-CoA dehydrogenase, C-4 to C-12 straight chain) is located on chromosome 1p31.
This gene encodes the medium-chain specific (C4 to C12 straight chain) acyl-Coenzyme A dehydrogenase.
The homotetramer enzyme catalyzes the initial step of the mitochondrial fatty acid beta-oxidation pathway.
Defects in this gene cause medium-chain acyl-CoA dehydrogenase deficiency, a disease characterized by hepatic dysfunction, fasting hypoglycemia, and encephalopathy, which can result in infantile death.
Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
Synthetic antimicrobial related to OXOLINIC ACID and NALIDIXIC ACID and used in URINARY TRACT INFECTIONS.
Erythromycin (and other macrolides) can induce Clindamycin resistance in bacteria that are already resistant to erythromycin through well understood molecular mechanisms described in (Woods CR.
Macrolide-Inducible Resistance to Clindamycin and the D-Test.
28(12): 1115-1118) related to the iMLSB genotype.
Using a disc of erythromycin and one of Clindamycin this phenomena and the iMSLB genotype can be recognized by the D-shaped area of resistance.
This means that the organism may become resistant to Clindamycin but not that it definitely would develop resistance.
Elaeagnus angustifolia (Russian Silverberry, Oleaster, or Russian-olive) is a species of Elaeagnus, native to western and central Asia, from southern Russia and Kazakhstan to Turkey and Iran.
Cedar elm is a deciduous tree native to south-central North America.
It grows mainly in southern and eastern Texas, eastern Oklahoma, Arkansas and Louisiana, with small populations in western Mississippi, south-western Tennessee and north-western Florida.
It also occurs in north-eastern Mexico.
It is the most prevalent elm in Texas.
Typically, it grows well in flat river bottom areas referred to as cedar elm flats.
An antibiotic similar to flucloxacillin used in treating resistant staphylococci infections.
The NPC1 gene+NPC2 gene (NPC intracellular cholesterol transporter 1) is located on chromosome 18q11.2.
This gene encodes a large protein that resides in the limiting membrane of endosomes and lysosomes and mediates intracellular cholesterol trafficking via binding of cholesterol to its N-terminal domain.
It is predicted to have a cytoplasmic C-terminus, 13 transmembrane domains, and 3 large loops in the lumen of the endosome - the last loop being at the N-terminus.
This protein transports low-density lipoproteins to late endosomal/lysosomal compartments where they are hydrolized and released as free cholesterol.
Defects in this gene cause Niemann-Pick type C disease, a rare autosomal recessive neurodegenerative disorder characterized by over accumulation of cholesterol and glycosphingolipids in late endosomal/lysosomal compartments.
Bismuth is a chemical element (symbol Bi and atomic number 83).
This heavy, brittle, white crystalline trivalent poor metal has a pink tinge and chemically resembles arsenic and antimony.
Of all the metals, it is the most naturally diamagnetic, and only mercury has less thermal conductivity.
Lead -free bismuth compounds are used in cosmetics and in medical procedures.
Bismuth and most of its compounds are less toxic compared to other heavy metals (lead, antimony, etc.)
and it is not bio-accumulative.
Bismuth poisoning exists and mostly affects the kidney, liver, and bladder.
Skin and respiratory irritation can also follow exposure to respective organs.
As with lead, overexposure to bismuth can result in the formation of a black deposit on the gingiva, known as a bismuth line.
Rivaroxaban is an oral anticoagulant, marketed as Xarelto.
It is the first available orally active direct factor Xa inhibitor.
Rivaroxaban is well absorbed from the gut and maximum inhibition of factor Xa occurs four hours after a dose.
The effects lasts 8-12 hours, but factor Xa activity does not return to normal within 24 hours so once-daily dosing is possible.
A non-imidazole blocker of those histamine receptors that mediate gastric secretion (H2 receptors).
It is used to treat gastrointestinal ulcers.
A fibrin-stabilizing plasma enzyme (TRANSGLUTAMINASES) that is activated by THROMBIN and CALCIUM to form FACTOR XIIIA.
It is important for stabilizing the formation of the fibrin polymer (clot) which culminates the coagulation cascade.
Rotaviruses are non-enveloped, multilayered, icosahedral viruses composed of an outer layer, an inner layer, and a core.
After the immature, double-layered virus is assembled in the host cell cytoplasm, they bud across the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) and acquire a temporary membrane that has on its surface the ER resident viral glycoproteins NSP4, VP4 and VP7.
The virus loses its temporary membrane and the NSP4 glycoprotein as it moves toward the center of the ER cisternae.
The VP4 and VP7 proteins are pushed to the outermost membrane layer and become the mature triple-layered rotavirus.
The outer capsid glycoprotein VP7 is believed to be important for the attachment to and entry in the host cell.
After it enters the host cell, the VP7 glycoprotein is lost.
When the host cell lyses, the mature virus are released.
There are eight groups of rotavirus, A through H. Groups A, B, C, and H are associated with an acute gastroenteritis and are found in humans and animals.
Groups D, E, F, and G are found only in animals.
Rotavirus C has been the cause of periodic outbreaks of infection in piglets, children, and adults, resulting in gastroenteritis and death.
Group C rotavirus were initially discovered in the 1980s in swine, but were later identified in humans, cows, ferrets, and dogs.
MT-45 is a new generation synthetic opioid with a piperidine structure (unrelated to most other opioids) that has appeared on recreational drug market.
It is 3.5 times more potent than morphine and is found in mixtures such as "Wow" (with synthetic cathinones).
MT-45 has been shown to cause physical dependence in mice, and adverse effects reported in humans include hair loss, dermatitis, elevated liver enzymes, cataracts, hearing loss and death .
Coolants and insulators were usually Polychlorinated biphenyl (PCBs) until they were restricted for environmental reasons.
They are concentrated by the predator food chain and lipophilic.
Galectin-3 is a member of the lectin family, of which 14 mammalian galectins have been identified.
Galectin-3 is approximately 30 kDa and, like all galectins, contains a carbohydrate-recognition-binding domain (CRD) of about 130 amino acids that enable the specific binding of β-galactosides.
Galectin-3 is encoded by a single gene, LGALS3, located on chromosome 14, locus q21-q22.
It is expressed in the nucleus, cytoplasm, mitochondrion, cell surface, and extracellular space.
This protein has been shown to be involved in the following biological processes: cell adhesion, cell activation and chemoattraction, cell growth and differentiation, cell cycle, and apoptosis.
Given galectin-3's broad biological functionality, it has been demonstrated to be involved in cancer, inflammation and fibrosis, heart disease, and stroke.
Studies have also shown that the expression of galectin-3 is implicated in a variety of processes associated with heart failure, including myofibroblast proliferation, fibrogenesis, tissue repair, inflammation, and Ventricular remodeling.
Elevated levels of galectin-3 have been found to be significantly associated with higher risk of death in both acute decompensated heart failure and chronic heart failure populations
Thiothixene is a typical antipsychotic agent that has similar effects to phenothiazine.
It blocks postsynaptic dopamine receptors and decreases dopamine activity, and helps reduce hallucinations and delusions.
It is primarily metabolized in the liver.
The existence of OXA-48 like class D beta-lactamases has been increasing in enterobacter species organisms.
The "OXA-like" groups of genes are molecularly similar to and thought to evolve from the original gene for which the group is named.
For example, as of 2014 the blaOXA-23-like group included 19 genes, including including blaOXA-23, -27, -49, and -73..
The OXA-48 like class D beta-lactamase enzymes are highly resistant to penicillins and beta lactamase inhibitors and show a low resistance to carbapenems.
These varied OXA-48-like beta-lactamases have been identified worldwide, including OXA-48-like producing Klebsiella pneumoniae with resistance to multiple drugs that emerged in Jordanian hospitals.
Reports have shown that organisms producing OXA-48 like enzymes are either not resistant to broad-spectrum cephalosporins or show a decreased susceptibility to carbapenemase drugs.
Identifying them can be a challenge.
Screening and detection is required to prevent and control dissemination.
The G6PC gene (glucose-6-phosphatase, catalytic subunit) is located on chromosome 17q21.
Glucose-6-phosphatase (G6Pase) is a multi-subunit integral membrane protein of the endoplasmic reticulum that is composed of a catalytic subunit and transporters for G6P, inorganic phosphate, and glucose.
This gene (G6PC) is one of the three glucose-6-phosphatase catalytic-subunit-encoding genes in human: G6PC, G6PC2 and G6PC3.
Glucose-6-phosphatase catalyzes the hydrolysis of D-glucose 6-phosphate to D-glucose and orthophosphate and is a key enzyme in glucose homeostasis, functioning in gluconeogenesis and glycogenolysis.
Mutations in this gene cause glycogen storage disease type I (GSD1).
This disease, also known as von Gierke disease, is a metabolic disorder characterized by severe hypoglycemia associated with the accumulation of glycogen and fat in the liver and kidneys.
Types of tissue in teeth In Humans Enamel is a hard outer layer consisting primarily of calcium and phosphate.
Dentin is the inner layer, the bulk of the tooth.
Pulp is the core, containing nerves and blood vessels.
Cementum is the thin layer around the root; a bone -like material which connects the teeth to the jaw.
In Aardvarks Teeth lack enamel and have many pulp tubules, hence the name of the order Tubulidentata.
Teeth (singular, tooth) are structures found in the jaws of many vertebrates.
The primary function of teeth is to tear and chew food, and in some animals, particularly carnivores, for fighting and, or defense.
The roots of the teeth are covered by gums.
The protective enamel covers the teeth and helps prevent cavities.
Adult teeth naturally darken with age as the pulp within the tooth shrinks and dentin is deposited in its place.
Teeth are among the most distinctive features of mammal species and fossils as well.
CD58, or lymphocyte function-associated antigen 3 (LFA-3), is a cell adhesion molecule.
Gamma-linolenic acid (GLA, sometimes called gamoleic acid) is a fatty acid found primarily in vegetable oils.
It is sold as a dietary supplement for treating problems with inflammation and auto-immune diseases.
The efficacy of such use is disputed.
Cyanobacteria (also known as blue-green algae, blue-green bacteria, and Cyanophyta) is a phylum of bacteria that obtain their energy through photosynthesis.
The name "cyanobacteria" comes from the color of the bacteria (Greek: κυανός (kyanós) = blue).
Certain cyanobacteria produce cyanotoxins including anatoxin-a, anatoxin-as, aplysiatoxin, cylindrospermopsin, domoic acid, microcystin LR, nodularin R (from Nodularia), or saxitoxin.
Sometimes a mass-reproduction of cyanobacteria results in algal blooms.
These toxins can be neurotoxins, hepatotoxins, cytotoxins, and endotoxins, and can be toxic and dangerous to humans and animals.
Several cases of human poisoning have been documented but a lack of knowledge prevents an accurate assessment of the risks.
Recent studies suggest that significant exposure to high levels of cyanobacteria causes amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS).
The Lake Mascoma ALS cluster and Gulf War veteran's cluster are two notable examples
JWH-081 is synthetic cannabis and an analgesic chemical from the naphthoylindole family, discovered by and named after Dr. John W. Huffman.
A large and complex variety of synthetic cannabinoids, most often cannabicyclohexanol, JWH-018, JWH-073, or HU-210, are used in an attempt to avoid the laws that make cannabis illegal, making synthetic cannabis a designer drug.
It is often marketed as "herbal incense".
Although synthetic cannabis does not produce positive results in drug tests for cannabis, it is possible to detect its metabolites in human urine.
The volume of fluid medications that is delivered to a patient via the oral route.
The cylinder is the curvature of the spectacle lens to help patients with astigmatism.
Fumarylacetoacetate is an intermediate in the metabolism of tyrosine.
Dinorsibutramine is a major metabolite of sibutramine.
Leptospira interrogans serovar Cynopteri originated in Indonesia and has been found in Australia by serology, though it has not been isolated from humans or animals in Australia.
Flying foxes may also be affected by the Cynopteri serovar.
A colorless liquid with a sharp burning taste and slight odor.
It is used as a local anesthetic and to reduce pain associated with LIDOCAINE injection.
Also, it is used in the manufacture of other benzyl compounds, as a pharmaceutic aid, and in perfumery and flavoring.
Influenza virus from the family Orthomyxoviridae are enveloped negative-strand RNA viruses with segmented genomes containing seven to eight gene segments.
Of the five genera in the family, only influenza A virus (IAV), influenza B and C viruses are medically relevant to humans.
Influenza A and B viruses have a similar structure whereby these viruses each contain eight discrete single-stranded RNA gene segments, each encoding at least one protein.
Aquatic birds harboring avian IAV are the likely natural reservoir for all known IAV subtypes and are probably the original source of all human pandemic IAV strains.
IAV maintained in wild birds have been associated with stable host switch events to novel hosts including most often to domestic poultry but also to horses, swine, toothed whales and humans, among other species.
Although influenza virus B has been isolated from seals, type B is isolated almost always from humans.
Influenza C virus has been isolated from pigs and dogs.
While influenza B and C virus also cause illness in humans, host switch events and high mutation rates among IAV types causes respiratory infections in humans ranging from asymptomatic to fatal and are the cause of the influenza pandemics in the 20th and 21st centuries.
Pandemics are attributed to "novel" viruses which possess a viral hemagglutinin (HA) to which humans do not have immunity.
Hydromorphone is a drug used to relieve moderate to severe pain.
It is known by the trade name Dilaudid®.
An extended-release version called Palladone® SR was available for a short time in the United States before being voluntarily withdrawn from the market after an FDA advisory released in July 2005.
Hydromorphone belongs to a category of drugs known as opioid agonists.
It is commonly given to patients who have recently undergone surgery or who have suffered serious injury.
Hydromorphone is often sought after by opiate drug abusers as it is one of the most potent of all prescription narcotics, when taken parenterally.
24,25-dihydroxyvitamin D (24,25 DHD), also known as 24r-Hydroxycalcidiol, is an INactive metabolite produced by alternative hydroxylation of 25 hydroxyvitamin D (25HDN) by the CYP24A1 enzyme.
The hydroxylation by CYP24A1 competes with hydroxylation to active form 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D (1,25 DHD) by the CYP27B1 enzyme, and is an important process that prevents overproduction of 1,25 DHD and resulting vitamin D toxicity.
Testing for an elevated ratio of 25HDN to 24,25 DHD can be used to reveal the likely presence of mutations in the CYP24A1 gene .
Formate levels are measured to detect inhalant abuse of methanol-containing products.
Studies suggest that inhalant abusers of methanol products may have significantly elevated methanol and formic acid levels.
Additionally, abusers have a low risk for methanol-induced complications, including visual dysfunction and refractory acidosis.
Bla g 4 is a ligand-binding protein (or calycin) that causes IgE antibody responses in 40% to 60% of patients allergic to Cockroaches.
Significantly, members of the calycin protein family can cause IgE antibody responses by inhalation or ingestion and are associated with asthma and food hypersensitivity.
The d-form of AMPHETAMINE.
It is a central nervous system stimulant and a sympathomimetic.
It has also been used in the treatment of narcolepsy and of attention deficit disorders and hyperactivity in children.
Dextroamphetamine has multiple mechanisms of action including blocking uptake of adrenergics and dopamine, stimulating release of monamines, and inhibiting monoamine oxidase.
It is also a drug of abuse and a psychotomimetic.
Maximum voluntary ventilation (MVV) is a measure of the maximum amount of air that can be inhaled and exhaled within one minute.
For the comfort of the patient this is done over a 15 second time period before being extrapolated to a value for one minute expressed as liters/minute.
Average values for males and females are 140-180 and 80-120 liters per minute respectively.
2,5-dimethoxy-N-(2-methoxybenzyl) phenethylamine (NBOMe) series of chemicals, including 25I-NBOMe, 2C-C-NBOMe and 25H-NBOMe, are highly potent hallucinogenic phenethylamine derivatives, primarily N-o-methoxybenzyl analogs of the 2C-X family of phenethylamines.
They were first investigated as agonists for 5-HT2A (serotonin 2A) receptors associated with hallucinogenic activity.
Most compounds in the NBOMe compounds are active at verly low sub-milligram doses.
These chemicals have nearly no history of human use prior to 2010 when they first became available online with dosing recommendations similar to LSD.
Violent episodes (physical and mental) as well as deaths have been attributed to the abuse of the NBOMe compounds.
Zaleplon (marketed under the brand names Sonata and Starnoc) is a sedative/hypnotic, mainly used for insomnia.
In terms of adverse effects zaleplon appears to offer little compared to both benzodiazepines and other non-benzodiazepine Z-drugs .
The M. abscessus complex consists of three subspecies (M. abscessus subsp.
Abscessus, M. abscessus subsp.
Massiliense, M. abscessus subsp.
They are known to cause respiratory disease in cystic fibrosis and elderly patients as well as skin and soft tissue infections.
M. abscessus infections are often difficult to treat as many strains are resistant to most of the common antibiotics.
Their resistance to clarithromycin can be determined based on expression of the inducible ribomethylase gene, erm(41).
The presence of a full length functional erm(41)gene, which is specific for M. abscessus, confers inducible resistance to clarithromycin while the non-functional truncated erm(41) gene exhibits higher drug susceptibility.
Real-time PCR methods are performed to detect the presence of the full or truncated erm(41) gene and determine proper treatment for patients.
Hydroxyitraconazole, a metabolite of itraconazole, appears in blood in amounts approximately twice that of the parent drug, and has antifungal activity and pharmacokinetics similar to those of the parent compound.
Androstenedione is a delta-4 C19 steroid produced in the testis, ovary and adrenal cortex.
Depending on the tissue type, androstenedione can serve as a precursor to testosterone or to estrone and estradiol.
Thyroglobulin (Tg) is a glycoprotein homodimer produced by the thyroid gland.
It is important in the synthesis of thyroxine and triiodothyronine, and is where the inactive forms of thyroid hormone and iodine are stored.
Mutations in the Tg gene cause thyroid dyshormonogenesis resulting in goiter, and can be associated with moderate to severe congenital hypothyroidism.
Polymorphisms in the Tg gene are associated with susceptibility to autoimmune thyroid diseases such as Graves disease or Hashimoto thyroiditis.
Tg is an established tumor marker used in the diagnosis of differentiated thyroid carcinoma.
Measures the N-telopeptide fragments of collagen (containing both pyridinoline and deoxypyridinoline); it is used in the diagnosis and management of osteoporosis.
Juniperus californica (California Juniper) is a species of juniper native to southwestern North America; as the name implies, it is mainly found in California, but also extends through most of Baja California, and a short distance into the Great Basin in southern Nevada, and western Arizona.
Macadamia is a genus of nine species of flowering plants in the family Proteaceae, with a disjunct distribution native to eastern Australia (seven species), New Caledonia (one species M. neurophylla) and Sulawesi in Indonesia (one species, M. hildebrandii).
Clinafloxacin (INN) is a quinolone antibiotic.
Anti-glial nuclear antibody type 1 (AGNA-1) targets the Sox1 nuclear antigen found in Bergmann cells, a specialized glial cell type found in the cerebellar cortex.
AGNA-1 antibodies are associated with paraneoplastic Lambert-Eaton myasthenic syndrome (LEMS) and paraneoplastic neuropathies associated with small cell lung cancer (SCLC).
They have also been associated with non-paraneoplastic neuropathy, which may be an immune-mediated condition.
Germanium is a chemical element with the symbol Ge and atomic number 32.
It is a lustrous, hard, grayish-white metalloid in the carbon group, chemically similar to its group neighbors tin and silicon.
Germanium has five naturally occurring isotopes ranging in atomic mass number from 70 to 76.
It forms a large number of organometallic compounds, including tetraethylgermane and isobutylgermane.
Cytisus scoparius (Common Broom; syn. Sarothamnus scoparius) is a perennial, leguminous shrub native to western and central Europe
The Escherichia coli fedF gene encodes the F18 fimbrial adhesion.
Escherichia coli (EC) is a gram-negative, flagellated, rod-shaped bacterium that is composed of a stable core set of genes, and another more fluid set of genes that includes the virulence genes.
The virulence genes can be transferred laterally between dividing EC.
These virulence genes increase the pathogenicity of EC and encode heat-stable and heat-labile enterotoxins, Shiga toxin 2e, and fimbria, including the F18 fimbria.
E. coli infection in pigs causes post-weaning diarrhea (PWD) which leads to watery diarrhea, dehydration, loss of body weight, and occasionally death.
EC adheres to the small intestine using adhesin factors, and produces one or more exotoxins that induce fluid and electrolyte secretion.
These are two chemically unrelated compounds from the streptogramin family that act synergistically.
Used to treat vancomycin resistant enterococcus (VRE) due to E. faecium (NOT E. faecalis), and methicillin resistant staph aureus (MRSA).
The Quinupristin / Dalfopristin combination inhibits protein synthesis by interfering with different targets on the rRNA 23S in the 50S ribosomal subunit.
The synergy appears to be based on ribosomal conformational changes triggered by the binding of the streptogramin A (Dalfopristin), which can cause irreversible attachment of the streptogramin B (Quinupristin) to the ribosome.
Arsenic trioxide is the inorganic compound with the formula As2O3.
This commercially important oxide of arsenic is the main precursor to other arsenic compounds, including organoarsenic compounds.
Approximately 50,000 tons are produced annually.
Many applications are controversial given the high toxicity of arsenic compounds.
Diclazepam, is a benzodiazepine and functional analog of diazepam.
Diclzaepam is not currently approved for use as a medication, but rather sold as an unscheduled substance.
Lymphocyte proliferation to antigens and mitogens is performed by flow cytometry using a thymidine analogue called Edu®.
Total lymphocytes are identified using a combination of the CD45 marker and FSC/SSC parameters, and total T cells with the CD3 marker from within the lymphocyte population.
Three concentrations each for Candida (CA) and Tetanus (TT) (same for mitogens) are used and only the result at the concentration of antigen/mitogen that gives maximal response for that individual (since this can vary from person to person) is reported.
The maximal % antigen-specific proliferating lymphocytes (CD45+) (numerator) relative to the total CD45+ lymphocyte population (denominator) is assessed.
For T cells, the maximal response where the % CD3+ proliferating antigen-specific T cells is expressed relative to the total CD3+ T cell population is assessed.
The maximum as referred to above is the concentration of antigen or mitogen that gives the highest proliferating response.
Calprotectin is a calcium-binding protein secreted predominantly by neutrophils during bacterial infection or inflammation.
It is a biomarker used in the evaluation of chronic inflammatory diseases, including rheumatoid arthritis (RA) and inflammatory bowel disease (IBD).
Elevated fecal levels have been seen in patient's with IBD and GI tract infections.
Calprotectin levels in synovial fluid may be measured for the diagnosis of periprosthetic joint infections (PJI).
A clear, colorless, viscous organic solvent and diluent used in pharmaceutical preparations.
A macrolide antibiotic that is similar to ERYTHROMYCIN.
Plasma cells express the cluster of differentiation antigens CD38 and CD138.
CD38 is expressed broadly across hematopoietic cells, but has a higher concentration on plasma cells than other cells.
CD138 is present on the surface of malignant and non-malignant cells.
CD138 is a valuable marker and more specific than CD38 for identifying plasma cells in bone marrow biopsies.
A plant species of the family FABACEAE widely cultivated for animal feed.
An enzyme that catalyzes the reduction of 6,7-dihydropteridine to 5,6,7,8-tetrahydropteridine in the presence of NADP+.
Dihydropteridine reductase (DHPR) deficiency, also known as phenylketonuria type 2, is an autosomal recessive disorder.
The resulting reduction in tetrahydrobiopterin results in malignant hyperphenylalaninemia, as well as a deficiency in certain neurotransmitters.
Formerly listed as .
Certolizumab is a monoclonal antibody conjugated to polyethylene glycol used to treat Crohn's Disease (CD) and rheumatoid arthritis (RA).
Certolizumab pegol binds to tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNFα), a pro-inflammatory cytokine that is implicated in the pathogenesis of a number of immunological diseases including CD and RA.
TNFα mediates the signature inflammation-induced joint damage in RA.
The reduction of TNFα alleviates symptoms of RA, CD and other immunologic diseases.
TNFα-inhibitors have been hugely successful in treating immunological diseases.
In spite of the positive impact TNFα-inhibitors have had there is still variability in response to their use including loss of response over time and drug tolerance.
Cephalosporin antibiotic, partly plasma-bound, that is effective against gram-negative and gram-positive organisms.
Estrone has low biological activity compared with estridiol.
In humans the major source of E1 is the extraglandular conversion of androstenedione secreted by the adrenal gland.
In women the sequence of events during the menstrual cycle depends on the stimulation of the ovary by gonadotropins and feedback by the estrogens on the hypothalamus and pituitary.
Under normal circumstances the amount of E1 generated is small and does not play a significant role in feedback, but under abnormal conditions the amount may become sufficient to interfere with normal feedback mechanisms and produce disturbances of the ovarian cycle.
In men, E1 levels may be helpful in the diagnosis of gynecomastia or the detection of estrogen-producing tumors.
Free T4 is the metabolically active fraction of thyroxine and is the precursor of triiodothyronine (T3).
Free T4 is a sensitive test for thyroid function and is increased with hyperthyroidism and decreased with hypothyroidism.
Free T4 is not affected by changes in thryoxine-binding proteins.
Information from Laboratory Test Handbook, Jacobs DS, DeMott WR, and Oxley DK, LexiComp, 2001.
The DMPK gene (dystrophia myotonica-protein kinase) is located on chromosome 19q13.3.
The protein encoded by this gene is a serine-threonine kinase that is closely related to other kinases that interact with members of the Rho family of small GTPases.
Substrates for this enzyme include myogenin, the beta-subunit of the L-type calcium channels, and phospholemman.
The 3' untranslated region of this gene contains 5-37 copies of a CTG trinucleotide repeat.
Expansion of this unstable motif to 50-5,000 copies causes myotonic dystrophy type I, which increases in severity with increasing repeat element copy number.
Repeat expansion is associated with condensation of local chromatin structure that disrupts the expression of genes in this region.
Several alternatively spliced transcript variants of this gene have been described, but the full-length nature of some of these variants has not been determined.
ICD patient diagnosis codes that summarize the pathologist's findings for the surgical or other pathological testing procedure being requested.
ICD coding was initially designed for statistical purpose, and is also tool to supervise and regulate billing information of services by physicians, laboratories, hospitals, and other healthcare providers rendered on Medicare beneficiaries.
Most third-party payers, including Medicare, require use of ICD CM codes to report diagnoses on insurance claim forms.
Hyperchromia (or hyperchromasia) is an abnormal increase in the hemoglobin content of the erythrocytes.
Hyperchromic RBCs have a decreased central pallor, but these cells are usually reported in morphological terms (as spherocytes).
Tuna are several species of fish in the family Scombridae, mostly in the genus Thunnus.
Tuna are fast swimmers (they have been clocked at 77 kmh (48 mph)) and include several species that are warm-blooded.
Unlike most fish species, which have white flesh, the flesh of tuna is pink to dark red.
This is because tuna muscle tissue contains greater quantities of myoglobin, an oxygen-binding molecule, than the muscle tissue of most other fish species.
Some of the larger tuna species such as the bluefin tuna can raise their blood temperature above the water temperature with muscular activity.
This enables them to live in cooler waters.
Tuna is an important commercial fish.
Some varieties of tuna, such as the bluefin and bigeye tuna, Thunnus obesus are threatened by overfishing.
Anaphylaxis reactions after ingestion of tuna have been reported.
The interval between an atrial event and the next triggered ventricular event in dual chamber pacing.
Genotypic detection of Varicella zoster virus resistance to antivirals is based on ORF36 (thymidine kinase, TK) and ORF28 (DNA polymerase, Pol) gene sequencing.
Oropouche virus (OROV) was isolated in approximately 1955 in Trinidad and Tobago.
Following the discovery OROV has caused several outbreaks and infections in the Brazilian Amazon.
OROV contains three single-stranded negative sense segments of genomic RNA.. OROV belongs to the family Peribunyaviridae, genus Orthobunyavirus.
The primary vector indicated is Culicoides paraenesis; however, Culex quinquefasciatus and Culex sp. mosquitoes are also associated with transmission.
OROV presents as acute febrile illness with symptoms including fever, chills, headaches, myalgia, and joint pain .
CD63, also known as Cluster of Differentiation 63, is a human gene.
The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the transmembrane 4 superfamily, also known as the tetraspanin family.
Most of these members are cell-surface proteins that are characterized by the presence of four hydrophobic domains.
The proteins mediate signal transduction events that play a role in the regulation of cell development, activation, growth and motility.
This encoded protein is a cell surface glycoprotein that is known to complex with integrins.
It may function as a blood platelet activation marker.
Deficiency of this protein is associated with Hermansky-Pudlak syndrome.
Also this gene has been associated with tumor progression.
The use of alternate polyadenylation sites has been found for this gene.
Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding different proteins.
The distance from soft tissue Subnasale to soft tissue Menton, perpendicular to the Frankfort horizontal plane
HIV infection decreases the number of CD3+ CD4+ lymphocytes (also called CD4 T cells or T4 helper cells) while increasing (momentarily) the numbers of CD3+CD8+ lymphocytes (called CD8 T lymphocytes or cytotoxic T cells).
Thus the ratio of CD4/CD8 lymphocytes is decreased.
These counts are used for prognostic purposes and to guide in the retroviral therapy.
CDC has emphasized since 1997 that the number of CD3+ lymphocytes is necessary in addition to the number of CD4+ cells to reliably identify the T4 helper cells and the number of CD8+ cells.
Laboratory reports that include only CD4 or only CD8 in their nomenclature are most likely really measuring CD3+CD4+ cells and CD3+CD8+ cells, respectively.
An HIV protease inhibitor that works by interfering with the reproductive cycle of HIV.
Tanner, J. M., Whitehouse, R. H., Marshall, W. A., Healey, M. J. R., Goldstein, H. (1976).
Assessment of skeletal maturity and prediction of adult height (TW2 method).
The cup to disc ratio is the ratio of the diameter of the optic disc cup to the diameter of the optic disc.
Normal is less than 0.5, and a ratio larger than 0.5 raises the suspicion of glaucoma.
A semisynthetic macrolide antibiotic derived from ERYTHROMYCIN that is active against a variety of microorganisms.
It can inhibit protein synthesis in bacteria by reversibly binding to the 50S ribosomal subunits.
This inhibits the translocation of aminoacyl transfer-RNA and prevents peptide chain elongation.
Salvinorin B is the inactive form of Salvinorin.
The des-acetylated analog salvinorin B is devoid of human activity.
A radioactive iodine uptake scan measures the amount of radioactive iodine taken up by the thyroid gland over a certain period of time.
The patient is given a certain dose of radioactive iodine, and then 4 to 6 and/or 24 hours later, depending on the testing center, the amount of radioactive iodine in the thyroid gland is measured using a gamma probe.
The radioactive iodine uptake ratio is calculated as the amount of radioactive iodine taken up by the thyroid gland divided by the total dose of radioactive iodine.
Sweet Chestnut is a shade-tolerant deciduous tree native to southeastern Europe, Asia Minor, and North Africa.
Several edible species of Chestnut are grown around world, the 4 main species being Sweet chestnut (C. sativa), Chinese chestnut (C. mollissima), Japanese chestnut (C. crenata), and American chestnut (C. dentata).
American chestnut has been decimated by parasites.
China, Korea and Italy are the world's largest producers of Chestnuts.
The principal European producers are Italy, Spain, Portugal, France, and Greece.
IgE-mediated allergy, resulting in hayfever and asthma, to pollen of the European chestnut represents an important cause of pollinosis in Mediterranean and sub-Mediterranean areas
Coagulation surface induced (aPTT) is the evaluation of intrinsic coagulation system and is useful in monitoring heparin therapy; aid in screening for the following: presence of classical hemophilia A, and B; Christmas disease; congenital deficiencies of factors II, V, VIII, IX, X, XI, and XII; presence of dysfibrinogenemia; disseminated intravascular coagulation; liver failure;congenital hypofibrinogenemia; vitamin K deficiency; congenital deficiency of Fitzgerald factor; congenital deficiency of prekallikrein; circulatory anticoagulant when heparin is given for treatment or prevention of thromboembolism.
CD81 molecule, also known as CD81 (Cluster of Differentiation 81), is a human gene.
The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the transmembrane 4 superfamily, also known as the tetraspanin family.
Most of these members are cell-surface proteins that are characterized by the presence of four hydrophobic domains.
The proteins mediate signal transduction events that play a role in the regulation of cell development, activation, growth and motility.
This encoded protein is a cell surface glycoprotein that is known to complex with integrins.
This protein appears to promote muscle cell fusion and support myotube maintenance.
Also it may be involved in signal transduction.
This gene is localized in the tumor-suppressor gene region and thus it is a candidate gene for malignancies.
The major metabolite of ramelteon, M-II, is active and has approximately one tenth and one fifth the binding affinity of the parent molecule for the human MT1 and MT2 receptors, respectively, and is 17 - 25-fold less potent than ramelteon in in vitro functional assays.
Although the potency of M-II at MT1 and MT2 receptors is lower than the parent drug, M-II circulates at higher concentrations than the parent producing 20 - 100 fold greater mean systemic exposure when compared to ramelteon.
M-II has weak affinity for the serotonin 5-HT2B receptor, but no appreciable affinity for other receptors or enzymes.
Similar to ramelteon, M-II does not interfere with the activity of a number of endogenous enzymes.
Api m 1 is a specific marker for primary sensitization to honey bee venom.
rApi m 1 is a valuable diagnostic tool to identify whether or not the culprit insect is a honey bee when assessing allergic reactions in stung patients.
The PDCD10 gene (programmed cell death 10) is located on chromosome 3q26.1.
This gene encodes an evolutionarily conserved protein associated with cell apoptosis.
The protein interacts with the serine/threonine protein kinase MST4 to modulate the extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK) pathway.
It also interacts with and is phosphoryated by serine/threonine kinase 25, and is thought to function in a signaling pathway essential for vascular developent.
Mutations in this gene are one cause of cerebral cavernous malformations, which are vascular malformations that cause seizures and cerebral hemorrhages.
Multiple alternatively spliced variants, encoding the same protein, have been identified.
Stanols are saturated sterols (they have no double bonds in the sterol ring structure).
The major plant stanols are sitostanol and campestanol, and are less abundant in nature than sterols.
A high intake of these substances impairs uptake of cholesterol from the gut, thus reducing total and LDL cholesterol.
Nitric oxide is converted to nitrate (NO3-) and nitrite (NO2-), which are inorganic ions that occur naturally in the soil, water and some foods.
Testing for nitrate/nitrite levels (NOx) is performed to monitor exposure and toxicity.
Acute acquired methemoglobinemia is a major health condition caused by high nitrate or nitrite exposure.
Infants less than 4 months of age are especially prone to acute acquired methemoglobinemia when exposed to high levels of nitrate or nitrite levels.(CDC, ATSDR, Toxic Substances Portal - Nitrates and Nitrites, 2013)
The mecA gene and its homologue, mecC, are found in bacterial cells and enable bacteria to be resistant to antibiotics such as penicillin, oxacillin and other penicillin-like antibiotics.
These genes are carried on a mobile genetic element called the staphylococcal cassette chromosome mec (SCCmec), which integrates at an open reading frame (orfX) in the bacterial genome.
The most commonly known carrier of the mecA gene is methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA).
The prevalence of mecC MRSA is currently low but varies geographically where in some regions its presence is increasing.
Dicarboxyhexenoylcarnitine (C6:1-DC), or 3-methylglutarylcarnitine, is an acylcarnitine and a diagnostic metabolite of 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl-coenzyme A lyase deficiency.
Tauroursodeoxycholic acid (TUDCA) is a secondary bile acid.
It is produced in the liver when ursodeoxycholic acid is conjugated to taurine.
TUDCA has cytoprotective properties and is used to treat chronic liver diseases associated with cholestasis.
It also may have neuroprotective effects and is a potential therapy for neurodegenerative conditions such as amyotrophic lateral sclerosis.
Pretomanid is a new drug in the nitroimidazooxazine class that is effective as part of a multi-drug regimen against multidrug-resistant tuberculosis (MDR-TB).
It has been studied in combination with bedaquiline and linezolid (BPaL) and bedaquiline, moxifloxacin, and pyrazinamide (BPaMZ).
As of November 2019, the BPaL regimen has been approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration for treating adult patients with extensively drug resistant (XDR) or treatment-intolerant or nonresponsive multidrug-resistant (MDR) pulmonary TB, and pretomanid is under review in the European Union.
The GALT gene (galactose-1-phosphate uridylyltransferase) is located on chromosome 9p13.
Galactose-1-phosphate uridyl transferase (GALT) catalyzes the second step of the Leloir pathway of galactose metabolism, namely the conversion of UDP-glucose + galactose-1-phosphate to glucose-1-phosphate + UDP-galactose.
The absence of this enzyme results in classic galactosemia in humans and can be fatal in the newborn period if lactose is not removed from the diet.
The pathophysiology of galactosemia has not been clearly defined.
Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
Determines whether the antibiotic Streptomycin will be synergistic with certain other antibiotics.
Generally the response to one aminoglycoside predicts the synergy response to the others.
Resistance to high concentration means that the organism will be resistant when combined with a beta-lactam antibiotic.
Flunitrazepam (formerly marketed under the trade name Rohypnol in North America), is a drug which is a benzodiazepine derivative.
It has powerful sedative, anxiolytic, and skeletal muscle relaxant properties.
Norbuprenorphine is the primary active metabolite of buprenorphine.
Norbuprenorphine acts as a μ-opioid, δ-opioid, and nociceptin receptor full agonist, as well as a κ-opioid receptor partial agonist.
Norbuprenorphine crosses the blood-brain-barrier similarly to buprenorphine and likely contributes to its effects.
Decanoylcarnitine is a primary marker for Medium-chain acyl-CoA dehydrogenase deficiency and Glutaric acidemia type II.
Secondary marker for Medium-chain ketoacyl-CoA thiolase deficiency.
Protein C is a vitamin K dependant protease found in the plasma.
When activated by thrombin and thrombomodulin protein C proteolytically inactivates factors V and VIII and as such is a powerful anticoagulant.
Fetal hemoglobin, or foetal haemoglobin, (also hemoglobin F or HbF) is the main oxygen transport protein in the fetus during the last seven months of development in the uterus and in the newborn until roughly 6 months old.
Functionally, fetal hemoglobin differs most from adult hemoglobin in that it is able to bind oxygen with greater affinity than the adult form, giving the developing fetus better access to oxygen from the mother's bloodstream.
In newborns, fetal hemoglobin is nearly completely replaced by adult hemoglobin by approximately 6 months postnatally.
In adults, fetal hemoglobin production can be reactivated pharmacologically, which is useful in the treatment of diseases such as sickle-cell disease.
M. hyorhinis most commonly affects pigs that are between 3-10 weeks old, but can also affect young-adult swine.
The 16S rRNA gene sequencing of Mycoplasma hyorhinis is generally used to show the genomic diversity in various anatomical sites of pigs and geographical regions where the organism is found.
Mesquites belong to the Fabaceae (Legume) family.
There are about 44 species of Mesquite found throughout the world.
They occur most frequently in warmer and semi-arid regions of North and South America (especially Argentina), Africa, India, and southwestern Asia.
All are deciduous and have characteristic bean pods that have long been used by humans, wildlife and livestock as a food source.
Mesquite pollen may induce asthma, rhinitis and conjunctivitis in sensitised individuals.
Babesia microti is a protozoan parasite that infects the red blood cells (RBCs) of humans.
It is the infectious agent that causes Babesiosis and is the most common species to infect humans in the United States.
Babesia microti is difficult to distinguish from the Plasmodium falciparum parasite that causes malaria, both on a stained blood smear and by the symptoms of infection.
The initial diagnosis is most often the identification of the parasite in RBCs on a Geimsa-stained thin blood smear.
Follow-up indirect fluorescent antibody (IFA) testing is 88-96% specific for Babesia microti infection.
Symptoms of infection are noticeable 1-8 weeks after the tick bite.
Infection in 25% of adults and 50% of children by Babesiosis microti is asymptomatic.
The less severe symptoms of infection include hemolytic anemia, jaundice, shortness of breath, hemoglobinuria, which occur during parasitic multiplication.
Patients without spleens experience a much higher rate of RBC infection (85%) versus an RBC infection rate of 1-10% in patients with spleens.
Splenectomized patients are more likely to be symptomatic when infected with Babesia microti and often die within 5-8 days.
The vector of Babesia microti is the Ixodidae tick and the reservoirs are believed to be the white-footed mouse (Peromuscus Leucopus Rafinesque), the microtus vole (Microtus spp.) and the white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus).
Acer macrophyllum (Bigleaf Maple or Oregon Maple) is a large deciduous tree in the genus Acer.
Gastrin is a hormone that stimulates the release of gastric acid from the parietal cells in the stomach.
It is secreted in response to stomach distension, vagal stimulation, the presence of partially digested proteins, and/or hypercalcemia.
Gastrin is produced at high levels in Zollinger-Ellison syndrome, often by a gastrin-producing tumor (gastrinoma).
Gastrinomas are usually found in the pancreas, but may be in the duodenum.
Gastrinoma are malignant in 62% of cases, with 44% having metastases.
Patients with Zollinger-Ellison syndrome have gastric and duodenal ulceration due to excessive, unregulated gastric acid secretion.
15-26% of Zollinger-Ellison patients have evidence of Werner syndrome-multiple endocrine neoplasia type 1.
Information from LOINC partner 1 and Wikipedia 2007 11 19.
Chenopodium is a genus of about 150 species of flowering plants, known as Goosefoots.
It contains several plants of minor to moderate importance as food crops including Quinoa, Fat Hen, Good King Henry and Epazote.
Goosefoots are used as food plants by the larvae of some Lepidoptera species.
In the APG II system (2003) it is placed in the family Amaranthaceae, but earlier, for example in the Cronquist system (1981), it was placed in the family Chenopodiaceae.
The zucchini or courgette is a small summer squash.
Along with some other squashes, it belongs to the species Cucurbita pepo.
Zucchini is the more common name in North America, Australia and Italy, while courgette is more commonly used in Britain, Ireland, France, New Zealand and South Africa.
Zucchini can be yellow, green or light green, and generally have a similar shape to a ridged cucumber, though a few cultivars are available that produce round or bottle-shaped fruit.
In a culinary context, zucchini is treated as a vegetable, which means it is usually cooked and presented as a savory dish or accompaniment.
Botanically, however, the zucchini is an immature fruit, being the swollen ovary of the female zucchini flower.
Wild rice (also called Canada rice, Indian rice, and water oats) is four species of grasses forming the genus Zizania, and the grain which can be harvested from them.
The grain was historically gathered and eaten in both North America and China.
Gadus chalcogrammus (Alaska Pollock) is a white flaky fish widely consumed in the United States as fishsticks, frozen filets, breaded and battered fish, and surimi which is imitation crabmeat.
Ertapenem is a carbapenem antibiotic marketed by Merck as Invanz.
It is structurally very similar to meropenem in that it possess a 1-β-methyl group.
Sialic acid is a generic term for the N- or O-substituted derivatives of neuraminic acid, a monosaccharide with a nine-carbon backbone.
It is also the name for the most common member of this group, N-acetylneuraminic acid (Neu5Ac or NANA).
Sialic acids are found widely distributed in animal tissues and to a lesser extent in other species ranging from plants and fungi to yeasts and bacteria, mostly in glycoproteins and gangliosides.
The amino group generally bears either an acetyl or glycolyl group but other modifications have been described.
The hydroxyl substituents may vary considerably: acetyl, lactyl, methyl, sulfate, and phosphate groups have been found.
A myogenic regulatory factor that controls myogenesis.
Myogenin is induced during differentiation of every skeletal muscle cell line that has been investigated, in contrast to the other myogenic regulatory factors that only appear in certain cell types.
Veterinary Medicine: Tildipirosin is a macrolide antibiotic used in the treatment and prevention of bovine respiratory disease (BRD) that is administered as a single subcutaneous dose.
The antibiotic primarily targets Mannheimia haemolytica, Pasteurella multocida and Histophilus somni bacteria which are the three most common pathogens found in BRD.
Tildipirosin achieves a much higher concentration in lung tissue and bronchial fluid for an extended period of time compared to plasma.
The lung tissue to plasma concentration ratio peaks close to 200, while bronchial fluid to plasma peaks at around 70.
The terminal half-life in plasma, lung tissue, and bronchial fluid are 9, 10, and 11 days, respectively.
Volume of PLASMA in the circulation.
It is usually measured by INDICATOR DILUTION TECHNIQUES.
11-dehydrotetrahydrocorticosterone (THA) is a mineralocorticoid hormone related to fluid balance and blood pressure control.
Low levels of THA in urine indicate long term adrenal insufficiency.
High levels suggest acute stress at time of specimen collection.
Dicarboxypalmitolycarnitine (C16-DC) can be a marker for Carnitine Palmitoyltransferase II Deficiency (CPT II) and Carnitine-acylcarnitine translocase deficiency (CACT).
Red blood cells are examined for size, color (pallor), and inclusion bodies.
CD57 is found on NK cells, some T and B cells, and some monocytes.
Natural killer cells usually lack CD3 expression, but express CD2, CD16, CD56, CD57, and sometimes CD8.
Natural killer cell populations may be increased or decreased with various immunologic abnormalities.
CD57 is usually positive in T-cell large granular lymphoctye leukemia, but negative in in aggressive NK-cell leukemia.
Information from Tietz Clinical Guide to Laboratory Tests, 4th edition, AHB Wu, 2006.
Natalizumab is a humanized monoclonal antibody against the cellular adhesion molecule α4-integrin.
Natalizumab is used in the treatment of multiple sclerosis and Crohn's disease.
The drug is believed to work by reducing the ability of inflammatory immune cells to attach to and pass through the cell layers lining the intestines and blood-brain barrier.
Natalizumab has proven effective in treating the symptoms of both diseases, preventing relapse, vision loss, cognitive decline and significantly improving quality of life in people with multiple sclerosis, as well as increasing rates of remission and preventing relapse in Crohn's disease.
Coumatetralyl is an anticoagulant of the 4-hydroxycoumarin vitamin K antagonist type.
Symptoms of overexposure relate to failure of the blood clotting mechanism and include bleeding gums and failure of blood clotting after skin wounds.
After one exposure the toxicity of coumatetralyl is relatively low, however if overexposure continues for several days the product becomes more toxic.
The product must therefore be constantly present in the bloodstream for more than 1 to 2 days in order to be highly toxic.
A single exposure, even though relatively large, may not produce toxic symptoms as the compound is quite rapidly metabolised.
Chronic animal studies show no evidence of carcinogenic or teratogenic effects.
The composition of the patient's enteral formula (formula name or description, special additives including supplemental fat, carbohydrate, protein fiber, etc.).
One or more identifiers for the clinician pronouncing the death of a patient; The full name, the state license number, and the provider NPI may be added as needed.
3-(3-Hydroxyphenyl)propanoic (hMPP) acid is one of the major metabolites of ingested caffeic acid (caffeic acid is unrelated to caffeine).
It is also one of the phenolic degradation products of proanthocyanidins (the most abundant polyphenol present in chocolate) by the microflora in the colon.
nMPP is suspected to have antioxidants properties and is actively absorbed by the monocarboxylic acid transporter (MCT) in intestinal Caco-2 cell monolayers.
Dopamine receptor D1 (DRD1) is a subtype of the dopamine receptor.
DRD1 antibodies bind to D1 receptors on neuronal cells and affect dopaminergic neurotransmission.
Elevated levels of DRD1 antibody have been linked to an immune response to a group A streptococcus infection, which has been implicated in tic disorder and neuropsychiatric abnormalities, although this is controversial.
Found on immature hematopoietic cells Associated with many acute leukemias - Not lineage specific
Oxytocin is a neurohypophysial hormone that plays a role in sexual reproduction, particularly during labor to facilitate birth and after birth for maternal bonding and to stimulate breastfeeding.
Recent studies investigate oxytocin's role in various behaviors, including social recognition, pair bonding, anxiety, and maternal behaviors.
Testing for oxytocin levels is may be performed on serum, plasma, urine, and other biological fluid, including saliva.
Due to oxytocin's pulsatile release, it is difficult for plasma and urine sampling to capture rapidly changing patterns of oxytocin concentration.
Saliva testing in some cases provides a more reliable measurement, which allows for a better understanding of the factors regulating oxytocin release.
The CareConnections Functional Index (CCFI) is used in outpatient physical therapy clinics for patients with musculoskeletal or neuromuscular conditions to help measure patients' functional status and quantify the effectiveness of treatment.
Separate instruments are available for musculoskeletal and neuromuscular conditions.
The instruments include general questions related to functional status as well as specific questions related to either neuromuscular function or each affected musculoskeletal region, which can include one or more of the following: temporomandibular joint, cervical/thoracic, lumbar, upper extremity and lower extremity.
To calculate the CCFI, the patient's raw score is converted to a percentage by dividing the raw score by the maximum possible score based on the number of questions answered by the patient.
A higher score indicates a better functional status.
Patients can complete the instrument multiple times over the course of treatment and changes in their scores can be used to monitor therapy effectiveness.
Greasewood (Sarcobatus) is a genus of one or two species of flowering plants.
Their area of distribution is western North America, from southeastern British Columbia and southwest Alberta, Canada south through the drier regions of the United States (east to North Dakota and west Texas, west to central Washington and eastern California) to northern Mexico (Coahuila).
Careless weed is a species of flowering plant in the amaranth genus.
It is native to most of the southern half of North America, and particularly, throughout the southern United States from southern California to Virginia.
It has also been introduced to Europe, Australia, and other areas.
Anecdotal evidence suggests that asthma, allergic rhinitis and allergic conjunctivitis are common following exposure to pollen from Careless weed; however, few specific studies have been reported to date
A plant species of the family apiaceae widely cultivated for the edible yellow-orange root.
The plant has finely divided leaves and flat clusters of small white flowers.
Several species of flatfish, in tropical and subtropical oceans, and fresh water.
Eats small crustaceans and other invertebrates.
Is able to change its color to match its background.
Colistin (polymyxin E1 and E2) is a polymyxin antibiotic produced by certain strains of Bacillus polymyxa var. colistinus.
Colistin is a mixture of cyclic polypeptides colistin A and B and is effective against Gram-negative bacilli, except Proteus.
Mycobacterium leprae is the bacterium that causes leprosy.
Leprosy is a chronic illness that affects the skin, peripheral nerves, eyes and mucosa of the upper respiratory tract.
Infection with Mycobacterium leprae causes numbness, nerve damage, disfigurement of limbs and tissue decay.
M. leprae was discovered in 1873 by Armauer Hansen in Bergen, Norway and was the first organism to be associated with a human disease.
It is an acid fast rod shaped obligate intracellular bacterium.
It is drawn to macrophages and especially Schwann cells of the peripheral nerves.
It is difficult to culture in vitro which has impeded an understanding of how it is transmitted, in what environment it resides and why infected individuals have such different clinical outcomes.
Treatment involves monthly rifampicin and dapsone and clofazimine on a daily basis for 12 months.
Drug resistance testing is mostly molecular and focuses on specific mutations associated with drug resistance.
Azoles of one NITROGEN and two double bonds that have aromatic chemical properties.
Lyso-sphingomyelin (LSM, sphingosylphosphorylcholine) is a biomarker for Niemann-Pick disease types
A, B and C, genetically distinct metabolic disorders.
Niemann-Pick types A/B and C share clinical features including hepatospenomegaly and specific neurological symptoms.
Types A and B are caused by mutations in the SMPD1 gene (or acid sphingomyelinase), while type C is caused by mutations in the NPC1 or NPC2 genes.
Both type A/B and C Niemann-Pick show increased plasma levels of LSM and/or its analog Lyso-sphingomyelin509 (LSM509), and it has been suggested that Niemann-Pick A and B can be biochemically distinguished from C by comparing plasma levels of LSM and LSM509.
Niemann-Pick type C can also be specifically diagnosed by the levels of oxysterols in blood or plasma .
Adenine phosphoribosyltransferase (APRTase) is an enzyme involved in the purine nucleotide salvage pathway and encoded by the APRT gene.
It functions as a catalyst in the reaction between adenine and phosphoribosyl pyrophosphate (PRPP) to form AMP.
APRTase deficiency is an uncommon genetic disorder that often causes kidney stones, and in some patients kidney failure.
The IKBKG gene (inhibitor of kappa light polypeptide gene enhancer in B-cells, kinase gamma) is located on chromosome Xq28.
This gene encodes the regulatory subunit of the inhibitor of kappaB kinase (IKK) complex, which activates NF-kappaB resulting in activation of genes involved in inflammation, immunity, cell survival, and other pathways.
Mutations in this gene result in incontinentia pigmenti, hypohidrotic ectodermal dysplasia, and several other types of immunodeficiencies.
Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
A pseudogene highly similar to this locus is located in an adjacent region of the X chromosome.
Major histocompatibility complex, class II, DQ beta 1, also known as HLA-DQB1, is a human gene.
The protein encoded by this gene is one of two proteins that are required to form the DQ heterodimer, a cell surface receptor essential to the function of the immune system.
Grade 2 sperm move forward, but they are either very slow or do not move in a straight line.
Cathepsin L, and to a lesser extent cathepsin B, have been found to be necessary for the virus to enter host cells in Ebola.
The majority of cases of hemolytic disease of the newborn (HDN) are associated with the principle antigens of the Rh system (D, C, E, little c,and little e), and the KEL1 (K) antigen is the most clinically important antigen in the Kell system also frequently encountered in transfusion reactions and HDN.
Alkaline phosphatase (ALP, ALKP) is a hydrolase enzyme responsible for removing phosphate groups from many types of molecules, including nucleotides, proteins, and alkaloids.
ALP is present in all tissues throughout the entire body, but is particularly concentrated in liver, bile duct, kidney, bone, and the placenta.
Humans and most other mammals contain the following ALP isozymes:
ALPI (intestinal), ALPL (tissue non-specific, liver/bone/kidney), and ALPP (placental, aka Regan isozyme).
The normal range of alkaline phosphatase is 20 to 140 IU/L. High ALP levels are present in children and pregnant women, if bile ducts are blocked, and in the presence of osteoblast activity, such as with Paget's disease of the bone.
Lowered levels of ALP are less common than elevated levels and occurs in various conditions, including aplastic and pernicious anemias, chronic myelogenous leukemia, Wilson's disease, children with severe enteritis, and postmenopausal women on estrogen therapy for osteoporosis.
The Red currant is a member of the genus Ribes in the gooseberry family, Grossulariaceae.
It is native to parts of western Europe (Belgium, France, Germany, the Netherlands, northern Italy, and northern Spain).
Anecdotal evidence suggests that Red currant may, in rare instances, induce symptoms of food allergy in sensitised individuals; however, few studies have been reported to date.
The white liquid secreted by the mammary glands.
It contains proteins, sugar, lipids, vitamins, and minerals.
A species of ALPHAVIRUS causing an acute dengue-like fever.
The C12orf65 gene (chromosome 12 open reading frame 65) is located on chromosome 12q24.31.
This nuclear gene encodes a mitochondrial matrix protein that appears to contribute to peptide chain termination in the mitochondrial translation machinery.
Two different 1 bp deletions (resulting in the same premature stop codon)result in decreased mitochondrial translation, decreased levels of oxidative phosphorylation complexes and encepthalomyopathy.
Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants.
Curvularia is a hyphomycete (mold) fungus which is a facultative pathogen of many plant species and of the soil.
Most Curvularia are found in tropical regions, though a few are found in temperate zones.
Curvularia defined by the type species C. lunata (Wakker) Boedijn.
Curvularia lunata appears as shiny velvety-black, fluffy growth on the colony surface.
C. lunata is distinguished by septate, dematiaceous hyphae producing brown, geniculate conidiophores.
The poroconidia are curved slightly to distinctly, transversely septate, with an expanded third cell from the pore end of the conidium.
Curvularia can be easily distinguished from Bipolaris and Drechslera spp.
since the conidia are non-distoseptate, that is, septate from edge to edge of the conidial wall.
The teleomorphic state of the type species Curvularia lunata is Cochliobolus lunatus (Fam.
Food allergen mix 15 (fx15, FP13) detects orange (F33), apple (F49), banana F92), and peach (F95) IgE antibodies.
Testing for IgE antibodies may be used to help diagnose an allergic disease or the cause of an anaphylactic episode in a patient.
Enzyme and fluorescent-based assays, which were preceded by the RAST test (Radio-AllergoSorbent Test), are performed to detect allergen-specific IgE in the patient's serum.
The FIG4 gene (FIG4 phosphoinositide 5-phosphatase) is located on chromosome 6q21.
The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the SAC domain-containing protein gene family.
The SAC domain, approximately 400 amino acids in length and consisting of seven conserved motifs, has been shown to possess phosphoinositide phosphatase activity.
The yeast homolog, Sac1p, is involved in the regulation of various phosphoinositides, and affects diverse cellular functions such as actin cytoskeleton organization, Golgi function, and maintenance of vacuole morphology.
Membrane-bound phosphoinositides function as signaling molecules and play a key role in vesicle trafficking in eukaryotic cells.
Mutations in this gene have been associated with Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease, type 4J.
Neutrophil granulocytes, generally referred to as neutrophils, are the most abundant type of white blood cells in mammals.
They belong to the polymorphonuclear cell family (PMNs) together with basophils and eosinophils.
The dialysated form of transferrin and found only in CSF, Ocular fluid and endolymp.
Used to determine whether there is a CSF leak.
Fosphenytoin (Cerebyx,Prodilantin) is a water-soluble phenytoin prodrug used only in hospitals for the treatment of epileptic seizures.
A hypnotic and sedative.
Its use has been largely superseded by other drugs.
A siderocyte is red blood cell with granular inclusion bodies that contain enough ferric iron to give a positive Prussian-blue reaction.
Testing may aid in the identification of sideroblastic and hemolytic anemias.
Siderocytes are uncommon in peripheral blood unless a splenectomy has been performed.
Veterinary Medicine: Carbadox is a potent synthetic antimicrobial agent and derivative of quinoxaline 1,4-di-N-oxide (QdNO).
Carbadox and other derivatives of QdNOs are used for improving the feed efficiency and controlling dysentery in food-producing animals, primarily swine.
Studies have shown QdNOs derivatives can be toxic to animals, especially when administered at high dosages and for prolonged periods of time.
The recommended use in animals is restricted to a bare minimum.
Many countries have banned the use of Carbadox in farm animals since it is known to be carcinogenic and is a risk to humans who consume meat containing carbadox residues.
Recently, the FDA's Center for Veterinary Medicine (CVM) determined that the human lifetime cancer risk from the consumption of pork liver containing carbadox residues is higher than allowed per FDA regulation and took steps to withdraw approval of the use of carbadox in swine.
A diuretic and renal diagnostic aid related to sorbitol.
It has little significant energy value as it is largely eliminated from the body before any metabolism can take place.
It can be used to treat oliguria associated with kidney failure or other manifestations of inadequate renal function and has been used for determination of glomerular filtration rate.
Mannitol is also commonly used as a research tool in cell biological studies, usually to control osmolarity.
δ-Aminolevulinic acid (dALA or δ-ALA or 5ala or 5-aminolevulinic acid) is the first compound in the porphyrin synthesis pathway, the pathway that leads to heme in mammals and chlorophyll in plants.
The ACAD8 gene (acyl-CoA dehydrogenase family, member 8) is located on chromosome 11q25.
This gene encodes a member of the acyl-CoA dehydrogenase family of enzymes that catalyze the dehydrogenation of acyl-CoA derivatives in the metabolism of fatty acids or branch chained amino acids.
The encoded protein is a mitochondrial enzyme that functions in catabolism of the branched-chain amino acid valine.
Defects in this gene are the cause of isobutyryl-CoA dehydrogenase deficiency.
Intradermo-palpaebral test; site is observed for purulent discharge from inner canthus or conjunctiva and swelling.
Granulocyte colony-stimulating factor (G-CSF or GCSF) is a colony-stimulating factor hormone.
It is a glycoprotein, growth factor or cytokine produced by a number of different tissues to stimulate the bone marrow to produce granulocytes and stem cells.
G-CSF then stimulates the bone marrow to release them into the blood.
It also stimulates the survival, proliferation, differentiation, and function of neutrophil precursors and mature neutrophils.
G-CSF is also known as colony-stimulating factor 3 (CSF 3)
The I169T mutation is associated with Lamivudine and Adefovir resistance.
Cryptococcus neoformans is an encapsulated yeast-like fungus that can live in both plants and animals.
This species, also known by its teleomorph name, Filobasidiella neoformans, belongs to a broad class of organisms called club fungi or Division Basidiomycota, one of the five major types of fungi.
C. neoformans usually grows as a yeast (unicellular) and replicates by budding.
Under certain conditions, both in nature and in the laboratory, C. neoformans can grow as a filamentous fungus.
When grown as a yeast, C. neoformans has a prominent capsule composed mostly of polysaccharides.
India ink staining is used for easy visualization of the capsule.
The particles of ink pigment do not enter the capsule that surrounds the spherical yeast cell, resulting in a zone of clearance or halo around the cells.
Asthma and allergic rhinitis may occur from exposure to Gerbils.
Typically, patients present with a persistent cough, intermittent dyspnoea and/or nocturnal wheezing.
Symptoms of allergic conjunctivitis may be present.
Rhinitis and sneezing may be prominent symptoms.
Onset of allergic illness may occur some years after a Gerbil is acquired as a pet, but once the illness is developed, symptoms occur rapidly following contact with the animal
The distinctive markers on antigens that trigger an immune response are called epitopes.
When tissues or cells from another individual enter your body carrying such antigenic non-self epitopes, your immune cells react.
This explains why transplanted tissues may be rejected as foreign and why antibodies will bind to them.
A polypeptide hormone produced in the HYPOTHALAMUS, and other tissues and organs.
It inhibits the release of growth hormone (SOMATOTROPIN), and also modulates important physiological functions of the kidney, pancreas, and gastrointestinal tract.
Somatostatin receptors are widely expressed throughout the body.
Somatostatin also acts as a neurotransmitter in the central and peripheral nervous systems.
Sporothrix schenckii is a thermally dimorphic fungus that can be found world-wide, and is the only active species of the genus Sporothrix.
The species is present in soil, and in vital and decomposing plant material such as peat moss.
Colonies grow moderately rapidly at 25°C.
They are moist, leathery to velvety, and have a finely wrinkled surface.
The color is white initially and becomes cream to dark brown in time ("dirty candle-wax" color).
At 37°C, colonies are yeast-like and creamy.
The color is cream to beige.
The conversion of the mould form to the yeast form is identification of Sporothrix schenckii.
Infections due to Sporothrix schenckii are more common at certain geographical areas.
Peru is an area of hyperendemicity for Sporothrix schenckii infections.
Sporothrix schenckii is the causative agent of sporotrichosis or rose-handler's disease.
Sporotrichosis is a subcutaneous infection and it starts following entry of the infecting fungus through the skin via a minor injury and may affect an otherwise healthy individual.
Following entry, the infection may spread via the lymphatic route (nodular lymphangitis may develop).
Patients infected with Sporothrix schenckii may be misdiagnosed as pyoderma gangrenosum due to the large ulcerations observed during the course of sporotrichosis
Maltose, or malt sugar, is a disaccharide formed from two units of glucose joined with an α(1→4) linkage.
It is the second member of an important biochemical series of glucose chains.
The addition of another glucose unit yields maltotriose; further additions will produce dextrins (also called maltodextrins) and eventually starch (glucose polymer).
The DHCR7 gene (7-dehydrocholesterol reductase) is located on chromosome 11q13.4.
This gene encodes an enzyme that removes the C(7-8) double bond in the B ring of sterols and catalyzes the conversion of 7-dehydrocholesterol to cholesterol.
This gene is ubiquitously expressed and its transmembrane protein localizes to the endoplasmic reticulum membrane and nuclear outer membrane.
Mutations in this gene cause Smith-Lemli-Opitz syndrome (SLOS); a syndrome that is metabolically characterized by reduced serum cholesterol levels and elevated serum 7-dehydrocholesterol levels and phenotypically characterized by mental retardation, facial dysmorphism, syndactyly of second and third toes, and holoprosencephaly in severe cases to minimal physical abnormalities and near-normal intelligence in mild cases.
Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants that encode the same protein.
Fatty acids found in the plasma that are complexed with serum albumin for transport.
These fatty acids are not in glycerol ester form.
Docosahexaenoic acid (DHA), is an omega-3 fatty acid essential for the growth and functional development of the brain in infants and for maintenance of normal brain function in adults.
Plentiful DHA in the diet improves learning ability, whereas deficiencies of DHA are associated with deficits in learning.
DHA is taken up by the brain in preference to other fatty acids.
DHA deficiencies are associated with fetal alcohol syndrome, attention deficit hyperactivity disorder, cystic fibrosis, phenylketonuria, unipolar depression, aggressive hostility, and adrenoleukodystrophy.
Decreases in DHA in the brain are associated with cognitive decline during aging and with onset of sporadic Alzheimer disease.
Epidemiological studies have shown a strong correlation between fish consumption and reduction in sudden death from myocardial infarction.
DHA is present in fatty fish (salmon, tuna, mackerel) and mother's milk.
Toluene diisocyanate (TDI) is an aromatic diisocyanate.
It is produced for reaction with polyols to form polyurethanes.
It exists in two isomers, 2,4-TDI (CAS: 584-84-9) and 2,6-TDI (CAS: 91-08-7).
2,4-TDI is produced in the pure state, but TDI is often marketed as 80/20 and 65/35 mixtures of the 2,4 and 2,6 isomers respectively.
It is a highly produced diisocyanate, accounting for 34.1% of the global isocyanate market in 2000, second only to MDI.
Cobalt (CO) is an essential trace mineral needed in small amounts in the diet and is an integral part of vitamin B12, cobalamin, which supports red blood cell production and the formation of myelin nerve coverings.
Chronic ingestion, however, has caused serious health problems at doses far less than the lethal dose.
There are no specific deficiency symptoms associated with cobalt, but as a component of B12, anemia can result from an inadequate intake.
After nickel and chromium, cobalt is a major cause of contact dermatitis.
Dietary sources of cobalt include green leafy vegetables, meat, liver, milk, oysters and clams.
An enzyme that catalyzes the synthesis of S-adenosylmethionine from methionine and ATP. .
Cefotetan is an injectable antibiotic of the cephamycin type.
It is often grouped together with second-generation cephalosporins and has a similar antibacterial spectrum, but with additional anti-anaerobe converage.
It was developed in Japan and is marketed outside Japan by AstraZeneca under the brand names Apatef and Cefotan.
XLR-11 N-(4-hydroxypentyl) is a metabolite of XLR-11, a synthetic cannabinoid that binds to the cannabinoid CB receptors.
XLR-11 is the fluorinated UR-144 analog and one of the most widely abused drugs.
Synthetic cannabinoids interact with the same brain receptors as THC (the active drug present in marijuana) and have been demonstrated to produce similar effects.
These drugs are typically sprayed on botanical material and smoked, although it can be ingested in liquid or powder form.
Products containing this drug are sold under a wide variety of names including (but not limited to)
Spice, Potpourri, Smoke, K2, Zombie, Kush, and Cloud 10.
Thiamin is one of the B vitamins.
The B vitamins are a group of water-soluble vitamins that are part of many of the chemical reactions in the body.
Thiamin (vitamin B1) helps the body's cells change carbohydrates into energy.
The main role of carbohydrates is to provide energy for the body, especially the brain and nervous system.
Thiamin also plays a role in muscle contraction and conduction of nerve signals.
Thiamin is essential for the metabolism of pyruvate.
Thiamin is found in: enriched, fortified, and whole grain products such as bread, cereals, rice, pasta, and flour, wheat germ, beef liver and pork, dried milk, egg, legumes and peas, nuts and seeds.
A lack of thiamin can cause weakness, fatigue, psychosis, and nerve damage.
Thiamin deficiency in the United States is most often seen in people who abuse alcohol (alcoholism).
A lot of alcohol makes it hard for the body to absorb thiamin from foods.
Unless those with alcoholism receive higher-than-normal amounts of thiamin to make up for the difference, the body will not get enough of the substance.
This can lead to a disease called beriberi.
In severe thiamin deficiency, brain damage can occur.
One type is called Korsakoff syndrome.
The other is Wernicke's disease.
Macrolide antibiotic obtained from cultures of Streptomyces fradiae.
The drug is effective against many microorganisms in animals but not in humans.
Lysophosphatidylcholine(16:0), or LysoPC(16:0), is a lysophospholipid (LyP).
It is a monoglycerophospholipid in which a phosphorylcholine moiety occupies a glycerol substitution site.
Lysophosphatidylcholines can have different combinations of fatty acids of varying lengths and saturation attached at the C-1 (sn-1) position.
Fatty acids containing 16, 18 and 20 carbons are the most common. LysoPC(16:0), in particular, consists of one chain of palmitic acid at the C-1 position.
The palmitic acid moiety is derived from fish oils, milk fats, vegetable oils and animal fats.
Lysophosphatidylcholine is found in small amounts in most tissues.
It is formed by hydrolysis of phosphatidylcholine by the enzyme phospholipase A2, as part of the de-acylation/re-acylation cycle that controls its overall molecular species composition.
It can also be formed inadvertently during extraction of lipids from tissues if the phospholipase is activated by careless handling.
In blood plasma significant amounts of lysophosphatidylcholine are formed by a specific enzyme system, lecithin:cholesterol acyltransferase (LCAT), which is secreted from the liver.
The enzyme catalyzes the transfer of the fatty acids of position sn-2 of phosphatidylcholine to the free cholesterol in plasma, with formation of cholesterol esters and lysophosphatidylcholine.
Lysophospholipids have a role in lipid signaling by acting on lysophospholipid receptors (LPL-R).
LPL-R's are members of the G protein-coupled receptor family of integral membrane proteins.
TT virus (TTV) was the first member of the new family Anelloviridae to be discovered.
TTV, for Transfusion Transmitted Virus or Torque teno virus is extremely common, even in healthy individuals - as much as 100% prevalent in some countries, and in approximately 10% of blood donors in the UK and the US.
Although it does not appear to cause symptoms of hepatitis on its own, it is often found in patients with liver disease.
For the most part, TTV infection is believed to be asymptomatic.
The genus CEPHALOSPORIUM is an obsolete synonym of the genus ACREMONIUM.
The Pharmacia term is "Cephalosporium acremonium
Blo t 5 is a major allergen of Blomia tropicalis, with up to 92% of allergic patients sensitised to it.
A chromosome with a triple alpha-globin loci, counterpart of the -alpha 3.7 deletion, may be present in patients with slight HbA2 enzyme increase and in association with beta-thalassemias.
The alpha-globin 3.7kb triplication is an important modulator of the severity of beta-thalassemia trait or beta-thalassemia intermedia, causing globin chain imbalance and therefore exacerbating the phenotypic severity of beta-thalassemia.
Co-inheritance of triplicated alpha-globin in beta-heterozygotes often leads to more significant anemia, splenomegaly, more pronounced red cell abnormalities, presence of circulating normoblasts, higher hemoglobin F concentrations, and presence of inclusion bodies in erythroblasts.
Measures the clotting time from the activation of factor VII.
Rosoxacin (also known as acrosoxacin, tradename Eradacil) is a quinolone antibiotic indicated for the treatment of urinary tract infections and certain sexually transmitted diseases.
Rosoxacin is not available in the United States.
It was developed by Sanofi-Synthelabo (now part of sanofi-aventis).
It is classified as first generation.
Allergy test for allergens within House Dust from Greer Labs., Inc.
The allergen code is h1.
Mite, cockroach, and animal allergens are major components of house dust.
Human epididymis protein 4 (known as HE4, or as WAP four-disulfide core domain protein 2) is a protein that in humans is encoded by the WFDC2 gene and belongs to the family of whey acidic four-disulfide core (WFDC) proteins.
HE4 is overexpressed in both ovarian and endometrial cancers and is an important biomarker that complements CA 125 in discriminating between benign and malignant pelvic masses, monitoring response to treatment, and detecting recurrences of both ovarian and endometrial cancer.
The risk of ovarian malignancy algorithm (ROMA) includes CA 125, HE4, and menopausal status to distinguish benign from malignant adnexal masses.
HE4 may augment the sensitivity of CA 125 for detecting early-stage ovarian cancer.
Ligustrum vulgare (Wild Privet, also sometimes known as Common Privet or European Privet), is a species of Ligustrum native to central and southern Europe, north Africa and southwestern Asia.
It is now found from southern England and southwestern Sweden to Poland and to northwestern Iran.
Ornithine is an amino acid generated when the enzyme arginase cleaves off urea from L-arginine.
Ornithine eliminates excess nitrogen as part of the urea cycle.
(Information from Wikipedia 9/14/06) Increased in cystinuria, gyrate atrophy, hyperornithinemia, hyperammonemia, homocitrullinuria syndrome, ornithine carbamoyl transferase deficiency, and dibasic aminoaciduria Type I and II (Information from LOINC partner 1 9/15/06).
Clarithromycin is a macrolide antibiotic used to treat pharyngitis, tonsillitis, acute maxillary sinusitis, acute bacterial exacerbation of chronic bronchitis, pneumonia (especially atypical pneumonias associated with Chlamydia pneumoniae or TWAR), skin and skin structure infections, and, in HIV and AIDS patients to prevent, and to treat, disseminated Mycobacterium avium complex or MAC.
In addition, it is sometimes used to treat Legionellosis.
Clarithromycin is available under several brand names, for example Biaxin, Klacid, and Claripen.
3-Hydroxyhippuric acid is an acyl glycine.
Acyl glycines are normally minor metabolites of fatty acids.
However, the excretion of certain acyl glycines is increased in several inborn errors of metabolism.
In certain cases the measurement of these metabolites in body fluids can be used to diagnose disorders associated with mitochondrial fatty acid beta-oxidation.
Acyl glycines are produced through the action of glycine N-acyltransferase which is an enzyme that catalyzes the chemical reaction: acyl-CoA + glycine < -- > CoA + N-acylglycine.
3-Hydroxyhippuric acid is an organic acid found in normal human urine.
3-Hydroxyhippuric acid is a metabolite of rutin detected in urine after consumption of tomato juice (a source of rutin).
3-Hydroxyhippuric acid has its origin in dietary procyanidins (a major source of polyphenols consisting of elementary flavan-3-ol (epi)catechin units).
3-Hydroxyhippuric acid is a microbial aromatic acid metabolite derived from dietary polyphenols, found in normal human urine.
Streptococcus pneumoniae is an important human pathogen whose virulence is based primarily on its polysaccharide capsule, which protects it by shielding it from the immune system.
Over time, study of the polysaccharide capsule has identified multiple serogroups and serotypes.
Serotypes are defined based on the chemical structure and immunologic properties of the polysaccharide, and each serogroup contains one or more serotypes that elicit the same antibody response.
The auto lysin lytA of Streptococcus pneumoniae is located on the cell envelope and is a cell wall degrading enzyme.
It may affect cell wall growth and cell wall turnover as well as control the release of cell wall components that promote inflammation.
The auto lysis lytA was found in 85% of isolates of Streptococcus pneumoniae and may be an important antigen in vaccine design.
Gamma glutamyl transferase (GGT or GGTP, or Gamma-GT) is a liver enzyme.
It is involved in the transfer of amino acids across the cellular membrane and in glutathione metabolism.
GGT is found in high concentrations in the liver, bile ducts and kidney.
The enzyme is also present in other tissues, such as the epididymis.
Its level in the blood may be tested because if it is elevated this may indicate an abnormality in the liver, though this can be caused by a number of conditions including: congestive heart failure, cholestasis (congestion of the bile ducts), cirrhosis of the liver, necrosis of the liver.
Levels of GGT are also increased in chronic and acute alcohol abuse.
Human citrullinated alpha-enolase peptide 1 is a glycolytic isoenzyme that is normally present in cells of the liver, spleen, kidney and brain.
While it plays an important role in the growth of structural tissues of skin, hair follicles, and the myelin sheaths of nerve fibers, it has also been found in areas of inflammation including arthritic joints, muscle fibers, and brain tissue affected by multiple sclerosis and Alzheimer's disease.
Though citrullinated alpha-enolase peptide 1 is present in a number of disease processes, it is in patients with rheumatoid arthritis (RA) that antibodies to citrullinated proteins (ACPA) are produced.
These autoantibodies are 98% specific to RA, making it an excellent biomarker for the diagnosis of RA.
High levels of ACPA are indicative of an increased probability of erosive disease in patients with RA.
A semi-synthetic antibiotic that is a chlorinated derivative of OXACILLIN.
An inhibitor of DOPA DECARBOXYLASE, preventing conversion of LEVODOPA to dopamine.
It is used in PARKINSON DISEASE to reduce peripheral adverse effects of LEVODOPA.
It has no antiparkinson actions by itself.
Naltrexone is an opioid receptor antagonist used primarily in the management of alcohol dependence and opioid dependence.
Naltrexone and its active metabolite 6-beta-naltrexol are competitive antagonists at μ- and κ-opioid receptors, and to a lesser extent at δ-opioid receptors.
The plasma halflife of naltrexone is about 4 h, for 6-beta-naltrexol 13 h.
The blockade of opioid receptors is the basis behind its action in the management of opioid dependence-it reversibly blocks or attenuates the effects of opioids.
Pupillary distance (interpupillary distance, binocular pupillary distance) is the distance between the midpoint of one pupil to the midpoint of the other pupil.
Pupillary distance is helpful in diagnosing conditions with accommodation, stereo visual acuity, and convergence.
It is also used in eye glass fittings.
Monocular pupillary distance is the distance between the midpoint of the pupil and the midpoint of the bridge of the nose.
Thromboxane beta 2 (TxB2) is a specific marker of platelet inhibition by aspirin.
Measurement of TxB2 levels in serum provides a measure of the response to aspirin in patients taking dual antiplatelet therapy.
The anterior angle formed by the Sella-Nasion plane and the Mandibular plane, using Menton (Gonion-Menton)
Neutrophils are the most common form of white blood cells in healthy adults.
Neutrophils are approximately 13 micrometers in diameter and have segmented nuclei with 3-5 lobes that are connected by thin strands of chromatin.
(Practical Haematology; Barbara J. Bain, Imelda Bates, Mike A. Laffan,S. Mitchell Lewis; Eleventh edition; 2012)
Neutrophils function to fight infection by both engulfing microorganisms and secreting lethal enzymes.
They are produced in the bone marrow and their primary function is to fight infection.
Neutrophil numbers increase in the blood in response to acute bacterial infection, inflammation, necrosis or chronic myelogenous leukemia.
Neutrophil levels are decreased in the following conditions: aplastic anemia, autoimmune disorder, cancer, chemotherapy, myelodysplastic syndrome and during a negative reaction to drugs.
Promethazine is a neuroleptic medication and first-generation antihistamine of the phenothiazine family.
The drug has strong sedative and weak antipsychotic effects.
It also reduces motion sickness and has antiemetic and anticholinergic properties.
In some countries it is prescribed for insomnia when benzodiazepines are contraindicated.
It is available in many countries under the brand names Phenergan, Promethegan, Romergan, Fargan, Farganesse, Prothiazine, Avomine, Atosil, Receptozine, Lergigan, and (in the UK) Sominex.
Because of the potential for more severe side effects the elderly should avoid use and it is contradicted in children less than 2 years.
A class of carbohydrates that contains five carbon atoms.
Veterinary Medicine: Pradofloxacin is a third generation fluoroquinolone antibiotic.
It has activity against gram-positive organisms as well as anaerobes.
Homocysteine, an amino acid with the formula HSCH2CH2CH(NH2)CO2H, is a homologue of the amino acid cysteine, differing from it only by an additional methylene (-CH2-) group.
It is biosynthesized from methionine by the removal of its terminal Cε methyl group.
Homocysteine can be recycled into methionine or converted into cysteine with B-vitamins.
The PROS1 gene (protein S (alpha)) is located on chromosome 3q11.2.
This gene encodes a vitamin K-dependent plasma protein that functions as a cofactor for the anticoagulant protease, activated protein C (APC) to inhibit blood coagulation.
It is found in plasma in both a free, functionally active form and also in an inactive form complexed with C4b-binding protein.
Mutations in this gene result in autosomal dominant hereditary thrombophilia.
An inactive pseudogene of this locus is located at an adjacent region on chromosome 3.
Bordetella pertussis is a bacterium that causes pertussis, a highly infectious and contagious disease known as whooping cough.
Testing for B. pertussis using IgA, IgG, and IgM filamentous hemagglutinin (FHA) and pertussis toxin antibodies is performed on adults with paroxysmal coughing and atypical pertussis symptoms.
Significant rise in IgG may not always be demonstrated since peak levels may be reached before the first sample is collected; therefore, both IgA and IgM antibody levels should be measured to diagnose active disease.
The FARS2 gene (phenylalanyl-tRNA synthetase 2, mitochondrial) is located on chromosome 6p25.1.
Aminoacyl-tRNA synthetases are a class of enzymes that charge tRNAs with their cognate amino acids.
This gene encodes a phenylalanine-tRNA synthetase (PheRS) localized to the mitochondrion which consists of a single polypeptide chain, unlike the (alpha-beta)2 structure of the prokaryotic and eukaryotic cytoplasmic forms of PheRS.
Structure analysis and catalytic properties indicate mitochondrial PheRSs may constitute a class of PheRS distinct from the enzymes found in prokaryotes and in the eukaryotic cytoplasm.
A toxic thiol mercury salt formerly used as a diuretic.
It inhibits various biochemical functions, especially in mitochondria, and is used to study those functions.
Polysaccharide gum from Sterculia urens (STERCULIA).
It is used as a suspending or stabilizing agent in foods, cosmetics and pharmaceuticals; a bulk-forming laxative; a surgical lubricant and adhesive; and in the treatment of skin ulcers.
Bla g 2 is one of the most potent Cockroach allergens, causing sensitisation in approximately 60 to 80% of Cockroach-allergic patients.
It shows homology to the aspartic proteinase family of enzymes.
Bla g 2 appears to be species-specific, having been demonstrated in German cockroach, whereas no similar protein is found in American cockroach, the other principal species in the U.S.A. High concentrations of Bla g 2 were found in Cockroach digestive organs (esophagus, gut, and proventriculus).
The allergen appears to function as a digestive enzyme in the Cockroach.
A serotonin antagonist and a histamine H1 blocker used as antipruritic, appetite stimulant, antiallergic, and for the post-gastrectomy dumping syndrome, etc.
Most household Cockroaches are in the families Blattellidae (German, Brown-banded) and Blattidae (American, Oriental, Smokey-brown).
The most important Cockroach species in industrialised countries are the German and the American.
The most common of these is the German cockroach.
B germanica is a small Cockroach, growing up to approximately 2 cm in length that is found throughout the world in association with humans.
It is unable to survive in locations away from humans or human activity.
Cockroach may commonly induce symptoms of asthma, allergic rhinitis, allergic conjunctivitis and allergic dermatitis in sensitised individuals.
These are the most common ailments attributable to Cockroach infestation of housing and are important public health problems.
Tests for presence of aacA gene using genomic methods.
When present, the aacA gene confers resistance to aminoglycosides.
Antithrombin is a small molecule that inactivates several enzymes of the coagulation system.
It is a glycoprotein produced by the liver.
Stenosis is the degree of narrowing inside an artery that is typically caused by a build-up of material such as inflammatory cells, cholesterol crystals, or calcium deposits.
A small degree of stenosis is usually asymptomatic, but more significant stenosis can lead to blockage of the artery or arteries, resulting in a number of conditions including angina, myocardial infarction, and stroke.
An enzyme catalyzing the oxidation of 2 moles of glutathione in the presence of hydrogen peroxide to yield oxidized glutathione and water. .
Angiotensin I converting enzyme (ACE,, an exopeptidase, is a circulating enzyme that participates in the body's renin-angiotensin system (RAS) which mediates extracellular volume (i.e. that of the blood plasma, lymph and interstitial fluid), and arterial vasoconstriction.
It is secreted by pulmonary and renal endothelial cells and catalyzes the conversion of decapeptide angiotensin I to octapeptide angiotensin II.
It is secreted by pulmonary and renal endothelial cells ACE degrades also bradykinin, a potent vasodilator, and other vasoactive peptides.
These two actions make ACE inhibition a goal in the treatment of conditions such as high blood pressure, heart failure, diabetic nephropathy, and type 2 diabetes mellitus.
Tube thoracostomy (TT) is commonly used for traumatic injuries which result in hemothorax and pneumothorax.
Many non-traumatic conditions associated with pleural effusion are also treated with TT.
In some geographic areas, it has been used in the management of infectious diseases such as tuberculosis, Kaposi's sarcoma and pneumonia.
A chest tube is inserted into the pleural space and may then be be attached to a suction device to remove excess fluid or air.
For long term drainage, a tunneled pleural drainage catheter is inserted which can be use for both inpatients and outpatients.
The Dandelion is a perennial weed that originated in Europe and Asia and is now naturalised throughout the world.
Anecdotal evidence suggests that asthma, allergic rhinitis and allergic conjunctivitis are common following exposure to pollen from Dandelion; however, few specific studies have been reported to date
Mitochondrial DNA complex III (Coenzyme Q - cytochrome c reductase/Cytochrome b) include the following genes: MT-CYB
LDH exists in five molecular forms(isoenzymes).
LDH isoenzymes may be followed to evaluate chest pain.
Normally, LD1 is less than LD2.
Patients with acute myocardial infarct(AMI), hemolytic anemia, megaloblastic anemia and, occasionally, renal injury, have LD1/LD2 "flip" where LD2 is greater than LD1.
An association between LD1 and testicular seminoma has also been recognized.
Information from Jacobs and DeMott Laboratory Test Handbook, 5th edition, DS Jacobs, WR DeMott and DK Oxley, 2001.
4-Hydroxyproline, or hydroxyproline (C 5 H 9 O 3 N), is an uncommon amino acid, abbreviated as HYP.
Hydroxyproline differs from proline by the presence of a hydroxyl (OH) group attached to the C (gamma) atom.
Proline hydroxylation requires ascorbic acid (vitamin C).
The most obvious, first effects (gingival and hair problems) of absence of ascorbic acid in humans come from the resulting defect in hydroxylation of proline residues of collagen, with reduced stability of the collagen molecule, causing scurvy.
Increased serum and urine levels of hydroxyproline have also been demonstrated in Paget's disease.
Trenbolone is a steroid used to increase muscle growth and appetite.
To increase its effective half-life, trenbolone is not used in an unrefined form, but is rather administered as ester derivatives such as trenbolone acetate, trenbolone enanthate or trenbolone cyclohexylmethylcarbonate (Parabolan).
Plasma lipases then cleave the ester group in the bloodstream leaving free trenbolone.
7-Aminoclonazepam is a metabolite of clonazepam, a benzdiazepine drug used to treat or control seizures, panic attacks, and akathisia.
Clonazepam's mode of action is to decrease abnormal electrical energy in the brain.
It can cause side effects such as drowsiness, problems with coordination, and muscle or joint pain.
It is often abused so is routinely ordered to detect and monitor usage.
Serpula lacrymans is one of the fungi that are responsible for dry rot.
It is a basidiomycete in the order Boletales.
A food, which may result in allergy symptoms in sensitised individuals.
Honey is produced by domesticated and many wild bees from the nectar of flowers and other plant secretions.
Honey appears to be a common self-reported allergy.
However, it may be that honey only uncommonly induces symptoms of food allergy in sensitised individuals.
The "Type I Diabetes Action Plan" is a communication tool medical providers use to inform school staff of a patient's diabetic condition and treatment protocol.
School staff uses this Information to guide and authorize their treatment of the child's diabetes while at school.
The following information is included in the action plan: 1.
Patient Information: name, dob,, grade, date diabetes diagnosis, 2.
Contact Information: parent/guardian, address, phone numbers, 3.
Students Health Care Provider: provider and clinic names, phone numbers 4.
Emergency Contact: name, relationship, phone numbers, 5.
Blood Glucose Monitoring: target range, times to check blood glucose, if student can do checks self, type of blood glucose monitor, 6.
Insulin: if insulin at school or not, type of insulin, insulin doses: school, lunchtime, meal bolus: units/grams carbo, correction: units per md/dl over mg/dl (correction scale), if parents provide written, 7.
Student's role in management of their diabetes (check skills present): basic skills, syringe/pen skills, insulin pumps, oral medications, 8.
S/S abnormal blood sugars checklist, 9.
Actions for Low Blood Sugar dependent on measurement and/or consciousness,10.
Actions for High Blood Sugar,11.
Daily School Routines/Classroom Information/Accommodations: checklist re lunchtime & snack carbs, access drinking water, bathroom privileges, recess time, physical education, 12.
Extra Snacks/Parties: checklist re treats in classroom, 13.
Students who ride the bus: if low,14.
Students who drive: if low 15.
Field trips: check list,16.
Equipment and Supplies: list, and 17.
Acknowledgment: provider signature and date, parent/guardian signature and date.
A lipid-regulating agent that lowers elevated serum lipids primarily by decreasing serum triglycerides with a variable reduction in total cholesterol.
These decreases occur primarily in the VLDL fraction and less frequently in the LDL fraction.
Gemfibrozil increases HDL subfractions HDL2 and HDL3 as well as apolipoproteins A-I and A-II.
Its mechanism of action has not been definitely established.
Direct or indirect contact with bird allergens may cause sensitization.
Bird allergens may be major components of house dust.
Sphingomyelin phosphodiesterase or simply Sphingomyelinase (SMase) is a hydrolase enzyme that is involved in sphingolipid metabolism reactions.
SMase is a member of the DNase I superfamily of enzymes and is responsible for breaking sphingomyelin (SM) down into phosphocholine and ceramide.
The activation of SMase has been suggested as a major route for the production of ceramide in response to cellular stresses.
5-fluoro PB-22 3-carboxyindole is a metabolite of 5F-PB-22 (5F-QUPIC or Quinolin-8-yl 1-pentyfluoro-1H-indole-3-8-carboxylate), a synthetic cannabinoid that binds to the cannabinoid CB1 and CB2 receptors.
Synthetic cannabinoids interact with the same brain receptors as THC (the active drug present in marijuana) and have been demonstrated to produce similar effects.
The drug is typically sprayed on botanical material and smoked, although it can be ingested in liquid or powder form.
Products containing this drug are sold under a wide variety of names including (but not limited to)
Spice, Potpourri, Smoke, K2, Zombie, Kush, and Cloud 10.
Plesiomonas shigelloides is a Gram-negative, rod-shaped bacterium which has been isolated from freshwater, freshwater fish, shellfish, and from many types of animals.
Human exposure to P. shigelloides is likely through contaminated water which has been used for drinking, recreation, or to rinse foods that are eaten without cooking.
Not all cases of ingested P. shigelloides result in illness, and the dose needed for clinical symptoms is presumed to be at least a million organisms.
Symptomatic disease is usually self-limiting, and is characterized by fever, chills, abdominal pain, nausea, watery diarrhea, and vomiting.
Symptoms typically begin 20-24 hours after consumption of contaminated food or water and can last from one day to one week.
Octenoylcarnitine is a secondary marker for Medium-chain ketoacyl-CoA thiolase deficiency.
2 neuramidases (N1, N2) exist in human FLUA.
7 others have been found in animals
Tarragon or dragon's-wort (Artemisia dracunculus) is a perennial herb in the family Asteraceae related to wormwood.
Corresponding to its species name, a common term for the plant is "dragon herb.
It is native to a wide area of the Northern Hemisphere from easternmost Europe across central and eastern Asia to India, western North America, and south to northern Mexico.
The North American populations may, however, be naturalised from early human introduction.
Norsibutramine is a minor metabolite of sibutramine.
Leukocytes or white blood cells (WBCs) are immune cells that fight infection, neoplasms and other inflammatory conditions, and mediate allergic responses.
There are five types of WBCs normally present in the circulation that are all derived from a similar stem cell in the bone marrow.
The five type of WBCs are divided into two groups based on the presence or absence of granules in the cytoplasm.
The granulocytes include the neutrophils, basophils and eosinophils.
The non-granulocytes include the lymphocytes and the monocytes.
The neutrophils fight infection by ingesting and digesting bacteria.
Eosinophils and basophils respond to allergic reactions and are capable of ingesting antigen-antibody complexes.
Monocytes phagocytose bacteria and release interferon to stimulate the immune system.
Lymphocytes are divided into T-cells and B-cells.
T-cell immunity is cellular and involves the activation of phagocytes and B-cell immunity uses antibodies to fight infection.
Both elevated and low leukocyte counts can be markers of infection and malignancy, and low leukocyte counts are associated with a variety of primary and secondary immunodeficiencies, depending on the WBC type(s) that are out of range.
(Mosby's manual of diagnostic and laboratory tests, Kathleen Deska Pagana; Timothy James Pagana, Elsevier St. Louis, Mo ©2010)
Chloride is an essential mineral required by humans that is found mainly in body fluids.
It is an important, negatively charged ion in the blood, and a major electrolyte that helps to conduct electrical impulses.
Electrolytes including chloride are located in the blood, lymph, and intra- and extra-cellular fluid.
Chloride helps to regulate osmolarity by offsetting the positively charged sodium and potassium ions in the serum.
It combines with hydrogen to form hydrochloric acid in the digestive tract which breaks down proteins, absorbs metallic minerals, and activates intrinsic factor.
Chloride is absorbed both actively and passively in order to help maintain extracellular fluid volume.
There is a continuous exchange of chloride and bicarbonate that occurs between the red blood cells and the plasma that controls the pH and excretion of carbon dioxide, a waste product of respiration.
CD2 (cluster of differentiation 2) is a cell adhesion molecule found on the surface of T cells and natural killer (NK) cells.
It has also been called T-cell surface antigen T11/Leu-5, LFA-2, LFA-3 receptor, erythrocyte receptor and rosette receptor.
Epidermal allergen mix 2 (ex2) contains cat dander, dog dander, guinea pig epithelium, mouse, and rat IgE antibodies.
Testing for IgE antibodies may be used to help diagnose an allergic disease or the cause of an anaphylactic episode in a patient.
Enzyme and fluorescent-based assays, which were preceded by the RAST test (Radio-AllergoSorbent Test), are performed to detect allergen-specific IgE in the patient's serum.
Alpha hydroxytriazolam is a benzodiazepine and metabolite of triazolam.
Ingestion of triazolam can lead to the following symptoms: hypnotic, amnesic, anxiolytic, sedative, anticonvulsant and muscle relaxant.
Triazolam is used to treat insomnia but is also implicated in cases of date-rape.
To verify the use of triazolam in cases of date-rape it is important to test for it and its metabolites as soon as possible.
Most of alpha hydroxytriazolam is cleared within 12 hours of ingestion.
5,6-dihydrouridine is a degradation product of tRNA and is almost solely excreted in urine.
Therefore, urinary 5,6-dihydrouridine can be used as a marker to assess the whole body degradation rate of tRNA.
A broad-spectrum penicillin antibiotic used orally in the treatment of mild to moderate infections by susceptible gram-positive organisms.
Long-acting, broad-spectrum, water-soluble, CEPHALEXIN derivative.
Telbivudine is an antiviral drug used in the treatment of hepatitis B infection.
Protonitazene is a benzimidazole derivative with extremely potent opioid effects, over 100 times more potent than heroin.
It is a structural isomer of isotonitazene, another potent synthetic opioid.
Lavandula angustifolia (also Lavandula spica or Lavandula vera; common lavender, true lavender, narrow-leaved lavender or English lavender (though not native to England); formerly L. officinalis) is a flowering plant in the family Lamiaceae, native to the western Mediterranean region, primarily in the Pyrenees and other mountains in northern Spain.
Triose-phosphate isomerase (TPI or TIM), is an enzyme that catalyzes the reversible interconversion of the triose phosphate isomers dihydroxyacetone phosphate and D-glyceraldehyde 3-phosphate.
In humans, deficiencies in TPI are associated with a progressive, severe neurological disorder called triose phosphate isomerase deficiency.
Triose phosphate isomerase deficiency is characterized by chronic hemolytic anemia.
While there are various mutations that cause this disease, most include the mutation of glutamic acid at position 104 to aspartic acid.
Phosphoenolpyruvate carboxykinase (PEPCK) is an enzyme in the lyase family used in the metabolic pathway of gluconeogenesis.
It converts oxaloacetate into phosphoenolpyruvate and carbon dioxide.
It is found in two forms, cytosolic and mitochondrial.
This is a rate-controlling step of gluconeogenesis, the process by which cells synthesize glucose from metabolic precursors.
The blood glucose level is maintained within well-defined limits in part due to precise regulation of PEPCK gene expression.
To emphasize the importance of PEPCK in glucose homeostasis, over expression of this enzyme in mice results in symptoms of type II diabetes mellitus, by far the most common form of diabetes in humans.
Due to the importance of blood glucose homeostasis, a number of hormones regulate a set of genes (including PEPCK) in the liver that modulate the rate of glucose synthesis.
The PPOX gene (hypocretin neuropeptide precursor) is located on chromosome 17q21.2.
This gene encodes a hypothalamic neuropeptide precursor protein that gives rise to two mature neuropeptides, orexin A and orexin B, by proteolytic processing.
Orexin A and orexin B, which bind to orphan G-protein coupled receptors HCRTR1 and HCRTR2, function in the regulation of sleep and arousal.
This neuropeptide arrangement may also play a role in feeding behavior, metabolism, and homeostasis.
The posterior-inferior angle formed by the long axis of the maxillary central incisor and the Sella-Nasion plane
Seventy seven percent of sera from patients allergic to Chenopod pollen were reactive to Che a 1.
Che a 1 is a 17 kDa protein, a trypsin inhibitor
Myelopoiesis is the regulated formation of myeloid cells, including eosinophilic granulocytes, basophilic granulocytes, neutrophilic granulocytes, and monocytes.
In hematology, myelopoiesis is the production of blood cells in the bone marrow.
The myeloid progenitor can differentiate in the bone marrow into granulocytes, macrophages (mature monocytes), mast cells (whose blood-borne progenitor is not well defined), and dendritic cells of the innate immune system.
Chloroacetic acid is the chemical compound with the formula ClCH2CO2H.
This carboxylic acid is a useful building block in organic synthesis.
Like other chloroacetic acids and related halocarbons, it is a potentially dangerous alkylating agent.
Enteropeptidase (also called enterokinase) is an enzyme produced by cells of the duodenum and involved in human digestion.
It is secreted from intestinal glands (the crypts of Lieberkühn) following the entry of ingested food passing from the stomach.
Enteropeptidase converts trypsinogen (a zymogen) into its active form trypsin, resulting in the subsequent activation of pancreatic digestive enzymes.
In humans, enteropeptidase is encoded by the PRSS7 gene (also known as ENTK) on chromosome 21q21.
Some nonsense and frameshift mutations in this gene lead to a rare recessive disorder characterised by severe failure to thrive in affected infants, due to enteropeptidase deficiency.
The revised Geneva score is a clinical decision support tool for identifying the probability of a patient having pulmonary embolism (PE).
It includes variables such as age, heart rate, signs and symptoms, and past medical history.
A higher total score is associated with an increased probability of PE.
The estimated fat need of an individual patient used to identify the appropriate reference standard of fat intake needs, and for the development of the nutrition prescription.
Gly m 4 (8) belongs to the PR-10 protein family.
It has also been designated a Group 1 Fagales-related protein.
Giles et al., in 1970, identified the antithetical antibody, anti-Cob, and the blood group system was established.
Coa is present on the red cells in 99.9 % of most populations, with a slightly lower incidence in Northern Europeans.
Alternatively, Cob is present in 8 to 10 % of Northern Europeans with much lower incidence in other populations.
Frequently used hypnotic, barbiturate anesthetic.
Allergy manifestations: anaphylactic shock, bronchospasm, flush, generalized erythema, angioedema, fixed drug eruption.
Glycine is a hydrophilic amino acid with uncharged polar groups and is used in the biosynthesis of purines and porphyrins.
Increased with nonketotic hyperglycinemia, arginosuccinic aciduria, carbamoyl phosphate synthetase deficiency, lysinuric protein intolerance, hyperprolinemia, iminoglycinuria, and ornithine transcarbamylase deficiency.
Lactoferrin is a major allergen in Milk.
Lactoferrin is an allergen of the whey fraction of Milk and can be found in the Milk of most species at levels lower than 1%.
Lactoferrin is a non-heme-iron-binding globular multifunctional glycoprotein with antimicrobial activity, produced during lactation and by epithelial cells at mucosal surfaces.
The protein is a prominent component of the first line of mammalian host defence, and its expression is up-regulated in response to inflammatory stimuli.
Lactoferrin may act as a potent anti-inflammatory protein at local sites of inflammation, including the respiratory and gastrointestinal tracts.
Human colostrum has the highest concentration, followed by human milk, then Cow's milk.
Chloral hydrate, also known as trichloroacetaldehyde monohydrate, 2,2,2-trichloro-1,1-ethanediol, and under the tradenames Aquachloral, Novo-Chlorhydrate, Somnos, Noctec, and Somnote, is a sedative and hypnotic drug as well as a chemical reagent and precursor.
Its chemical formula is C 2 H Cl 3 O .H 2
O. It is used for the short-term treatment of insomnia and as a sedative before minor medical or dental treatment.
It has been largely displaced by the development of benzodiazepines.
It was also formerly used as in veterinary medicine as a general anesthetic.
Today, it is commonly used as an ingredient in the veterinary anesthetic Equithesin.
In therapeutic doses for insomnia it is effective within sixty minutes, it is rapidly metabolized into trichloroethanol and trichloroacetic acid.
Higher doses can depress respiration and blood pressure.
Campylobacter species is a gram-negative comma or S-shaped motile bacteria.
Most infections occur from eating raw or undercooked poultry or by touching a contaminated object.
Other sources of Campylobacter include water, animals, and unpasteurized milk.
Symptoms begin 2-5 days after being exposed and include bloody diarrhea, fever, abdominal cramps, nausea, and vomiting.
Some people are asymptomatic.
Campylobacter can spread to the bloodstream and cause life-threatening illness in immunocompromised patients.
C jejuni is the primary species found in campylobacter infections.
Campylobacter is identified in stool, body tissue, and fluid cultures.
Clonazolam is a triazolobenzodiazepine that has increasingly been observed in forensic casework.
Identification of metabolites is important to identify the use and abuse, wuth the amino metabolite, 8-Aminoclonazolam, being the major one.
The IDUA gene (iduronidase, alpha-L-) is located on chromosome 4p16.3.
This gene encodes an enzyme that hydrolyzes the terminal alpha-L-iduronic acid residues of two glycosaminoglycans, dermatan sulfate and heparan sulfate.
This hydrolysis is required for the lysosomal degradation of these glycosaminoglycans.
Mutations in this gene that result in enzymatic deficiency lead to the autosomal recessive disease mucopolysaccharidosis type I (MPS I).
A major C19 steroid produced by the adrenal cortex, dehydroepiandrosterone (DHEA) is also produced in small quantities in the testis and the ovary.
It can be converted to testosterone, androstenedione, estradiol, and estrone.
Most of DHEA is sulfated (dehydroepiandrosterone sulfate) before secretion.
The distance from soft tissue Glabella to Subnasale, perpendicular to the Frankfort horizontal plane
Insulin-like growth factor binding protein 3 (IGFBP3) is a protein encoded by the IGFBP3 gene.
Its levels decrease during the progression of prostate cancer from benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH) to the metastatic form although its production does not cease completely.
Instead of being synthesized at full length, however, IGFBP3 is cleaved thus preventing it from binding and sequestering IGFs.
The growth factors are then free to bind the IGF-1R and promote cell survival.
A species of PESTIVIRUS causing a congenital sheep disease characterized by an abnormally hairy birth-coat, tremors, and poor growth.
AChR antibodies and striated muscle antibodies have been detected in patients with Myasthenia gravis (MG), thymoma without neurological symptoms, and in patients with other autoimmune diseases, including, for example, Lambert-Eaton disease, myasthenic syndrome, rheumatoid arthritis, systemic lupus erythematosus, Graves disease, and autoimmune liver disease.
AChR antibodies are further characterized into three categories; binding, blocking, and modulating.
ACHR-binding antibodies are detected in 90% of patients with severe, generalized MG, and 50% of patients with ocular MG.
ACHR-modulating antibodies and ACHR-blocking antibodies are detected in approximately 65% to 70% of MG patients.
Oxacillin sodium (Bactocill®) is a beta-lactam antibiotic in the penicillin class.
It has been used particularly in the treatment of Staphylococcus aureus infections and resistant strains are often called oxacillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (ORSA).
Carotene is the hydrocarbon form of carotenoids.
Carotenoids cause plants (such as fruits and vegetables) to present bright coloration such as orange, red, or yellow.
When carotenoids are digested they are converted into Vitamin A, an essential nutrient for preventing cellular damage.
Carotene is found in three different variations: alpha-carotene, beta-carotene (most common), and gamma-carotene.
The beta-carotene content in the blood is often tested if an individual displays retina or bone problems.
A healthy amount of beta-carotene in the bloodstream is approximately 50 to 300 mcg/dL.
Triazole antifungal agent that is used to treat oropharyngeal candidiasis and cryptococcal meningitis in AIDS.
A glucocorticoid with the general properties of the corticosteroids.
It is the drug of choice for all conditions in which routine systemic corticosteroid therapy is indicated, except adrenal deficiency states.
Tricyclic antidepressant similar in action and side effects to IMIPRAMINE.
It may produce excitation.
In medicine, exhaled nitric oxide (eNO) can be measured in a breath test for asthma or other conditions characterized by airway inflammation.
Nitric oxide (NO) is a gaseous molecule produced by certain cell types in an inflammatory response.
The fraction of exhaled NO (FENO) is a promising biomarker for the diagnosis, follow-up and as a guide to therapy in adults and children with asthma.
The breath test has recently become available in many well-equipped hospitals in developed countries, although its exact role remains unclear.
Methanol, also known as methyl alcohol, wood alcohol or wood spirits, is a chemical compound with chemical formula CH3OH.
It is the simplest alcohol, and is a light, volatile, colorless, flammable, poisonous liquid with a distinctive odor that is somewhat milder and sweeter than ethanol (ethyl alcohol).
It is used as an antifreeze, solvent, fuel, and as a denaturant for ethyl alcohol.
Methanol is produced naturally in the anaerobic metabolism of many varieties of bacteria.
As a result, there is a small fraction of methanol vapor in the atmosphere.
Over the course of several days, atmospheric methanol is oxidized by oxygen with the help of sunlight to carbon dioxide and water.
Methanol burns in air forming carbon dioxide and water:2 CH3OH + 3O2 †' 2 CO2 + 4 H2
O. A methanol flame is almost colorless.
Care should be exercised around burning methanol to avoid burning oneself on the almost invisible fire.
The F2 gene (coagulation factor II (thrombin)) is located on chromosome 11p11.
Coagulation factor II is proteolytically cleaved to form thrombin in the first step of the coagulation cascade which ultimately results in the stemming of blood loss.
F2 also plays a role in maintaining vascular integrity during development and postnatal life.
Finally, peptides derived from the C-terminus of this protein have antimicrobial activity against E. coli and P. aeruginosa.
Mutations in F2 leads to various forms of thrombosis and dysprothrombinemia.
The SUGCT gene (succinyl-CoA:glutarate-CoA transferase) is located on chromosome 7p14.1.
This gene encodes a protein that is similar to members of the CaiB/baiF CoA-transferase protein family.
Mutations in this gene are associated with glutaric aciduria type III.
Alternate splicing results in multiple transcript variants.
Increases in beta-hydroxybutyrate are due to excessive fatty acid oxidation.
Elevated levels are seen in gluconeogenesis, PHD complex deficiency, respiratory chain defects, IVA, PA, MMA, multiple carboxylase deficiency, 3-methylcrotonyl-CoA carboxylase deficiency, glyceroluria, MSUD, GA I, MAD deficiency, Beta-ketothiolase deficiencies, 2-amino/2-ketoadipic acidemia,mitochondrial SCHAD,and fatty acids oxidation deficiency.
(Kumps A, Duez P, Mardens Y. Metabolic, Nutritional, Iatrogenic, and Artifactual Sources of Urinary Organic Acids: A Comprehensive Table.
The 2019 Novel Coronavirus (2019-nCoV) is a coronavirus first identified as the cause of a respiratory illness outbreak in Wuhan, China.
Initially, the outbreak was linked to a large seafood and animal market and thought to only be spread by animal to person contact.
Within a short time, a growing number of patients who had not been exposed to animal markets were diagnosed with the infection, indicating person-to-person transmission.
As of January 2020, infections with 2019-nCoV had been reported internationally due to confirmed cases in travelers from Wuhan.
Overall, clinical symptoms appear milder than SARS Coronavirus (SARS-CoV) and Middle East Respiratory Syndrome (MERS)
Coronavirus (MERS-CoV) infections as do the fatality rate and transmissibility.
Reported illnesses range from minor or no respiratory symptoms to severe acute respiratory illness and death.
The full genome of the 2019-nCoV was first posted by Chinese health authorities in GenBank, the NIH genetic sequence database, and in the Global Initiative on Sharing All Influenza Data (GISAI) portal.
This facilitated detection of the virus globally with subsequent sequences being nearly identical, suggesting a single, recent emergence from a virus related to bat coronaviruses and the SARS coronavirus.
Interleukin 2 receptor is an autocrine and paracrine growth factor secreted by activated T lymphocytes and is essential for clonal T-cell proliferation.
The fundamental, structural, and functional units or subunits of living organisms.
They are composed of cytoplasm that contains various organelles and a cell emebrane boundary.
Ehrlichia is a genus of rickettsiales bacteria.
They are transmitted by ticks.
Several species can cause infection (Ehrlichiosis) in humans.
The genus is named after German microbiologist Paul Ehrlich.
These diseases are considered zoonotic as the main reservoir for the pathogen is in animal, usually mammal species.
Acid phosphatases (APs) are a family of enzymes that are widespread in nature, and can be found in many animal and plant species.
Mystery surrounds the precise functional role of these molecular facilitators, despite much research.
Yet, paradoxically, human APs have had considerable impact as tools of clinical investigation and intervention.
One particular example is tartrate resistant acid phosphatase, which is detected in the serum in raised amounts accompanying pathological bone resorption.
This article seeks to explore the identity and diversity of APs, and to demonstrate the relation between APs, human disease, and clinical diagnosis.
2002 April; 55(2): 65-72.
HPV type 18 has been associated with low grade cervical abnormalities, cancer precursors, and anogenital cancers.
HPV types 16 and 18 together account for about 70% of cervical cancers.
Dibenzofuran, is a heterocyclic organic compound.
It is an aromatic compound that has two benzene rings fused to one furan ring in the middle.
All of the numbered carbon atoms have a hydrogen atom bonded to each of them.
Dibenzofuran is an aromatic ether having the chemical formula C12H8O.
Charcot-Leyden crystals are microscopic crystals found in people who have allergic diseases such as asthma or parasitic infections such as parasitic pneumonia or ascariasis.
The Charcot-Leyden crystal protein interacts with eosinophil lysophospholipases.
Bone marrow or peripheral blood hematopoietic stem cells are collected for patients scheduled to undergo stem cell (bone marrow) transplantation.
For autologous transplants, the patient donates his or her own cells.
For allogeneic transplants, a healthy donor provides cells for a patient.
Collected cells (harvested by aspiration from the marrow or by therapeutic apheresis from the blood after treatment of the donor with a stem cell mobilizing agent such filgrastim) are processed to concentrate the stem cells.
Stem cells may be further processed in a variety of ways, depending upon the source and volume of stem cells and the diagnosis of the recipient.
In selected cases, the concentrated stem cell preparation is processed to concentrate or eliminate cells found in the collection.
A special chemical mixture is added to protect cells during freezing, and they are frozen and stored at temperatures below 80 degrees Celsius until thawed for infusion into the patient.
Stem cell transplantation is used to replace diseased bone marrow, as in leukemia, or as an adjunctive measure for patients undergoing high-dose chemotherapy and/or radiotherapy.
For some diagnoses, stem cell transplantation procedures are experimental.
A megaloblast is an unusually large erythroblast that can be associated with pernicious anemia (Vitamin B12 deficiency) and folic acid deficiency (collectively called megaloblastic anemia).
It is differentiated from a normoblast, which is a normally-sized erythroblast.
This kind of anemia leads to macrocytes (abnormally large red cells).
The cause of this cellular gigantism is an impairment in DNA synthesis which delays nuclear maturation and cell division.
Because RNA and cytoplasmic elements are synthesized at a constant rate despite the cells impaired DNA synthesis the cells show nuclear-cytoplasmic asynchrony.
Sporisorium cruentum is a plant pathogen.
Left ventricular (LV) systolic dyssynchrony represents variability in the timing of contraction in different LV myocardial segments.
The mechanical dyssynchrony index, also known as the Yu index, is one measure of systolic dyssynchrony and is calculated based on the standard deviation of the time to peak systolic velocity for each segment as measured by echo.
LV dyssynchrony leads to decreased pumping efficiency and therefore a decrease in the LV ejection fraction, and is significantly correlated with LV systolic dysfunction in patients with heart failure independent of myocardial perfusion.
A semisynthetic cephamycin antibiotic with a broad spectrum of activity against both gram-positive and gram-negative microorganisms.
It has a high rate of efficacy in many types of infection and to date no severe side effects have been noted.
Bromazepam (marketed under brand names Calmepam, Compendium, Creosedin, Durazanil, Lectopam, Lexaurin, Lexomil, Lexotan, Lexotanil, Normoc, Somalium) is a drug which is a benzodiazepine derivative.
It has sedative, hypnotic, anxiolytic and skeletal muscle relaxant properties.
Brown pigment formed from hemoglobin by oxidation of the ferrous to the ferric state.
Associated with most B-cell ALL; most mature B-cell neoplasms; Acute monocytoid leukemias
The angle formed by the Palatal plane (ANS-PNS) and the and the mandibular plane, using Menton (Constructed Gonion-Menton)
Distance from Articulare to constructed Gonion
Veterinary Medicine: Zolazepam (Flupyrazapon) is a pyrazolodiazepinone derivative structurally related to the benzodiazepine drugs, which is used as an anaesthetic for a wide range of animals in veterinary medicine.
Zolazepam is usually administered in combination with other drugs such as the NMDA antagonist tiletamine or the alpha-2 adrenergic receptor agonist xylazine, depending on what purpose it is being used for.
3-Hydroxybutyrylcarnitine is a primary marker for Short-chain L-3-hydroxy acyl-CoA dehydrogenase deficiency.
An oxidoreductase that catalyzes the reaction between superoxide anions and hydrogen to yield molecular oxygen and hydrogen peroxide.
The enzyme protects the cell against dangerous levels of superoxide. .
Clade nomenclatures aim at providing a broad-brush categorization of globally circulating diversity of SARS-CoV-2.
One example of a Clade nomenclature is the based on year followed by a letter (Nextstrain.org).
These are meant to be major groupings and not intended to completely specify genetic diversity.
In general, new clades are proposed when certain criteria are met, for example reaching a frequency of 20% globally with at least two mutations away from its parent clade.
Indigenous to Europe and Western Asia.
Has annual and perennial types.
Annuals (asparagus/catalonia chicory) grown for their dandelion-like leaves and flower shoots which can be cooked or eaten raw in salads.
para-Hydroxyamphetamine (PHA), also known as Norpholedrine (Oxamphetamine, Paredrine), 4-hydroxyamphetamine (4-HA), and α-methyltyramine (α-Me-TRA), is a drug that stimulates the sympathetic nervous system.
When used in eye drops, it dilates the pupil.
Norpholedrine is sold in combination with tropicamide under the brand name Paremyd.
It occurs as a metabolite of amphetamine.
Lactate evaluates metabolic acidosis dehydration and diabetic acidosis.
The following genes encode tRNA: MT-TA, MT-TR, MT-TN, MT-TD, MT-TC, MT-TE, MT-TQ, MT-TG, MT-TH, MT-TI, MT-TL1, MT-TL2, MT-TK, MT-TM, MT-TF, MT-TP, MT-TS1, MT-TS2, MT-TT, MT-TW, MT-TY, MT-TV.
Food allergen mix 13 (fx13, FP13) detects carrot (F31), white bean (F15), peas (F12), and potato (F35) IgE antibodies.
Testing for IgE antibodies may be used to help diagnose an allergic disease or the cause of an anaphylactic episode in a patient.
Enzyme and fluorescent-based assays, which were preceded by the RAST test (Radio-AllergoSorbent Test), are performed to detect allergen-specific IgE in the patient's serum.
An antibacterial agent that is a semisynthetic analog of lincomycin.
The SLC25A13 gene (solute carrier family 25 (aspartate/glutamate carrier), member 13) is located on chromosome 7q21.3.
This gene is a member of the mitochondrial carrier family.
The encoded protein contains four EF-hand Ca(2+) binding motifs in the N-terminal domain, and localizes to mitochondria.
The protein catalyzes the exchange of aspartate for glutamate and a proton across the inner mitochondrial membrane, and is stimulated by calcium on the external side of the inner mitochondrial membrane.
Mutations in this gene result in citrullinemia, type II.
Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
Salmonella enterica is a flagellated, Gram-negative bacterium, and a member of the genus Salmonella.
The SPAST gene (spastin) is located on chromosome 2p24-p21.
This gene encodes a member of the AAA (ATPases associated with a variety of cellular activities) protein family.
Members of this protein family share an ATPase domain and have roles in diverse cellular processes including membrane trafficking, intracellular motility, organelle biogenesis, protein folding, and proteolysis.
The encoded ATPase may be involved in the assembly or function of nuclear protein complexes.
Two transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms have been identified for this gene.
Other alternative splice variants have been described but their full length sequences have not been determined.
Mutations associated with this gene cause the most frequent form of autosomal dominant spastic paraplegia 4.
The V173L mutation is associated with Lamivudine, Entecavir and Famciclovir resistance.
Catechol, also known as pyrocatechol or 1,2-dihydroxybenzene, is an organic compound with the molecular formula C6H4(OH)2.
It is the ortho isomer of the three isomeric benzenediols.
This colorless compound occurs naturally in trace amounts.
About 20M kg are produced annually, mainly as a precursor to pesticides, flavors and fragrances.
The catechol skeleton occurs in a variety of natural products such as urushiols, which are the skin-irritating poisons found in plants like poison ivy, and catecholamines, drugs imitating them (such as MDMA), hormones/neurotransmitters, and catechin, which is found in tea.
Many pyrocatechin derivatives have been suggested for therapeutic applications.
The DYSF gene (dysferlin) is located on chromosome 2p13.3.
The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the ferlin family and is a skeletal muscle protein found associated with the sarcolemma.
It is involved in muscle contraction and contains C2 domains that play a role in calcium-mediated membrane fusion events, suggesting that it may be involved in membrane regeneration and repair.
In addition, the protein encoded by this gene binds caveolin-3, a skeletal muscle membrane protein which is important in the formation of caveolae.
Specific mutations in this gene have been shown to cause autosomal recessive limb girdle muscular dystrophy type 2B (LGMD2B) as well as Miyoshi myopathy.
Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants.
Urine is a liquid waste by-product of metabolism filtered from the blood by the kidneys.
It is stored in the bladder until it is released during urination.
The normal color is straw yellow.
Abnormal colored urine (e.g., cloudy, dark, bloody) may result from disease, infection, medication or particular foods that were consumed.
The PAH gene (phenylalanine hydroxylase) is located on chromosome 12q22-q24.2.
PAH encodes the enzyme phenylalanine hydroxylase that is the rate-limiting step in phenylalanine catabolism.
Deficiency of this enzyme activity results in the autosomal recessive disorder phenylketonuria.
Detection of circulating methylated DNA from the SEPT9 gene, which is involved in cytokinesis and cell cycle control, aids in the detection of colorectal cancer (CRC).
Valproic acid is an anticonvulsant that is used alone or with other medication to treat certain types of seizures, mania in people with bipolar disorder, and to prevent migranes before they occur.
it cannot be used to treat migranes once they begin.
Valproic acid can also be used for children with attention deficit hyperactivity disorder to treat outbursts of aggression or impaired intellectual functioning, developmental delays, and behavioral disturbances associated with Lennoz-Gastaut syndrome.
Manganese plays a tole in oxidative phosphorylation, fatty acid metabolism, and synthesis of proteins, mucopolysaccharides, and cholesterol.
Toxicity from inhalation produces symptoms mimicking Wilson's disease and Parkinson's disease.
Veterinary Medicine: The potential for manganese toxicity in livestock is limited except when dietary intake of other minerals is marginal.
Studies suggest fish may be more sensitive to manganese toxicity than mammals or birds.
In medicine, malignant is a clinical term that is used to describe a clinical course that progresses rapidly to death.
It is typically applied to neoplasms that show aggressive behavior characterised by local invasion or distant metastasis.
The change of cells from benign to malignant behavior is called malignant transformation.
Usually this diagnosis is made by pathologic examination of tissues.
However, often the physician during the history and physical examination can find that there have been changes in size or patient sensation and upon direct examination that there has been a change in the lesion itself.
Malignant transformation is a synonym for progression to malignancy.
Transformation may take place as a primary or a secondary process.
Although malignant transformation may occur because of changes within the cell, it can be induced by inorganic toxic substances such as cadmium or arsenite and organics such as tobacco-specific nitrosamines.
Cytochrome P450 1A2 (CYP1A2)-mediated drug metabolism is highly variable and often based on a patient's genotype.
Genetic testing is performed to identifying patients who are poor, intermediate, extensive, or ultrarapid metabolizers of drugs metabolized by CYP1A2.
A polymorphism is associated with decreased activity of the CYP1A2 enzyme.
Expansion of the CAG triplet repeat in the HTT gene (also known as IT15 or HD gene) causes Huntington disease (HD), a progressive brain disorder that causes uncontrolled movements, emotional changes, and loss of cognition.
The HTT gene is located on chromosome 4 and position p16.3.
The expanded CAG segment leads to the production of an abnormally long version of the huntingtin protein.
People with Huntington disease have 36 to more than 120 CAG repeats.
People with 36 to 39 CAG repeats may or may not develop the signs and symptoms of Huntington disease, while people with 40 or more repeats almost always develop the disorder.
An antibiotic produced by Streptomyces spectabilis.
It is active against gram-negative bacteria and used for the treatment of gonorrhea.
Oxymesterone is an anabolic steroid.
Ribose 5-phosphate isomerase (RPI) is part of the pentose phosphate pathway and synthesizes D-ribose 5-phosphate from D-ribulose 5-phosphate.
Ribose 5-phosphate isomerase deficiency (RPID) is caused by mutations in the RPIA gene.
Deficient activity of Rpi has been demonstrated in fibroblasts and lymphoblasts.
Mutations found in the REEP1 (SPG31) and NIPA1 genes are associated with autosomal dominant hereditary spastic paraplegias (HSPs).
HSPs are clinically and genetically heterogeneous.
Approximately 40% of the forms with autosomal dominant inheritance pattern have mutations in the SPAST (SPG4) gene that encodes an AAA ATPase family, called spastin.
In cases where no mutation is found in the SPAST gene, and the segregation pattern of the disease in the family is autosomal dominant, mutation analysis in the ATL1 gene (SPG3A) (10% familial cases) is performed.
When no mutation is found in the SPAST or ALT1 genes, then mutation analysis may be performed in the REEP1 (SPG31) and NIPA1 genes.
Copy number analysis (e.g. MLPA) to look for large deletions or duplications in various genes associated with HSPs may also be performed.
The ALK (ALK receptor tyrosine kinase) gene is located on chromosome 2 at 2p23.2-p23.1.
This gene encodes a receptor tyrosine kinase, which belongs to the insulin receptor superfamily, and has been found to be rearranged, mutated, or amplified in a series of tumors including anaplastic large cell lymphomas, neuroblastoma, and non-small cell lung cancer.
The chromosomal rearrangements are the most common genetic alterations in this gene, which result in creation of multiple fusion genes in tumorigenesis, including ALK (chromosome 2)/EML4 (chromosome 2), ALK/RANBP2 (chromosome 2), ALK/ATIC (chromosome 2), ALK/TFG (chromosome 3), ALK/NPM1 (chromosome 5), ALK/SQSTM1 (chromosome 5), ALK/KIF5B (chromosome 10), ALK/CLTC (chromosome 17), ALK/TPM4 (chromosome 19), and ALK/MSN (chromosome X).
HLA antibodies showing the prozone effect represent antibody specificities against HLA antigens that were not apparent in undiluted patient specimen, but became apparent after dilution.
This so called prozone effect has been attributed to a number of putative mechanisms, including complement factor, antibody agglutination or competing IgM. Prozone effect can often be reversed with serum dilution or treatment with heat, EDTA, or DTT.
Microsomal epoxide hydrolase 1 (EPHX1) is a microsomal enzyme that acts as a detoxifying enzyme, converting epoxides to trans-dihydrodiols.
EPHX1 variants (including rs1051740 and rs2234922) have been associated with craniofacial defects in children of women taking phenytoin during pregnancy, neurodegeneration, drug dependence, carbamazepine metabolism, alcohol dependence, and possibly certain cancers.
The enzyme cytochrome c oxidase or Complex IV is a large transmembrane protein complex found in bacteria and the mitochondrion.
Defects involving genetic mutations altering cytochrome c oxidase (COX) functionality or structure can result in severe, often fatal metabolic disorders.
Such disorders usually manifest in early childhood and affect predominantly tissues with high energy demands (brain, heart, muscle).
Among the many classified mitochondrial diseases, those involving dysfunctional COX assembly are thought to be the most severe.
Disorders involving dysfunctional COX assembly via gene mutations include Leigh syndrome, cardiomyopathy, leukodystrophy, anemia, and sensorineural deafness.
Most aminoacidopathies are autosomal recessive or X-linked inherited disorders due to deficient enzyme or transport proteins.
More than 30 aminoacidopathies have been identified in literature.
Severe liver disease or renal tubular disorders may also cause elevated amino acid levels.
Selected aminoacidopathies may be difficult to detect among newborns due to the lack of protein-containing diet.
(Information from Quest Diagnostics 9/14/06).
A potent and specific inhibitor of PEPTIDYL-DIPEPTIDASE A.
It blocks the conversion of ANGIOTENSIN I to ANGIOTENSIN II, a vasoconstrictor and important regulator of arterial blood pressure.
Captopril acts to suppress the RENIN-ANGIOTENSIN SYSTEM and inhibits pressure responses to exogenous angiotensin.
The yeast genus Malassezia (previously designated Pityrosporum) have been associated with a number of diseases affecting the human skin, such as pityriasis versicolor, Malassezia (Pityrosporum) folliculitis, seborrheic dermatitis and dandruff, atopic eczema/dermatitis syndrome (AEDS), psoriasis, and-less commonly-with other dermatologic disorders such as confluent and reticulated papillomatosis, onychomycosis, and transient acantholytic dermatosis.
Malassezia yeasts are a part of the normal microflora, under certain conditions they can cause superficial skin infection.
Because they are difficult to isolate, the clinical role of Malassezia had been somewhat controversial.
A cholinesterase inhibitor that crosses the blood-brain barrier.
Tacrine has been used to counter the effects of muscle relaxants, as a respiratory stimulant, and in the treatment of Alzheimer's disease and other central nervous system disorders.
A plant species of the Salvia genus known as a spice and medicinal plant.
Lassa fever is an acute viral hemorrhagic fever first described in 1969 in the Nigerian town of Lassa in the Yedseram River valley.
Clinical cases of the disease had been known for over a decade earlier but not connected with this viral pathogen.
The infection is endemic in West African countries, causing many deaths.
Outbreaks of the disease have been observed in the following countries: Nigeria Liberia Sierra Leone Guinea Central African Republic but it is believed that human infections also exist in: Democratic Republic of the Congo Mali Senegal
It is also the most common hemorrhagic fever that is exported beyond its endemic area to countries like the United States, the United Kingdom, the Netherlands, Japan, and Israel.
Cholic Acid is one of two primary bile acids in humans, the other is Chenodeoxycholic Acid.
Both of these bile acids are formed from cholesterol and converted by intestinal bacteria (through deconjugation and 7-alpha-hydroxylation) to the secondary bile acids, deoxycholic acid and lithocholic acid.
Elevated concentrations often suggest impaired hepatic clearance due to liver disease.
Serum cholic acid rises more in intrahepatic cholestasis of pregnancy than chenodeoxycholic acid does.
Monomeric prolactin is the most common form of circulating prolactin.
Prolactin also has several isoforms, including the dimeric form ("big-prolactin") that has a molecular weight of ~50 kD and polymeric form ("big-big prolactin") that has a molecular weight of ~ 150 kD).
Big-big prolactin, known as macroprolactin, and big prolactin are formed in the circulation after secretion of prolactin from the pituitary.
They have a longer half-life than monomeric prolactin are not biologically active.
However, typical prolactin assays do not differentiate between the different forms of prolactin, and the presence of big and big-big prolactin can lead to a false diagnosis of hyperprolactinemia.
Methods such as PEG precipitation can separate macroprolactin and big prolactin from monomeric prolactin in order to obtain a more accurate measurement of biologically active prolactin, and chromatography can be used to further characterize the isoforms if necessary.
N-nortramedol (N-desmethyltramadol) is a metabolite of Tramadol.
It is an enantiomer of O-nortramedol.
Cholesterol exists either in the nonesterfied (free, unesterified) form or in the esterified form, in which a fatty acid is bound to the hydroxyl group of cholesterol by an ester bond.
Non-esterified cholesterol is essential for remodeling neuronal plasma membranes.
Typically about 50% of the excreted cholesterol is reabsorbed by the small bowel back into the bloodstream.
Cholesterol esterification is significant because it allows to enhance lipids transport capability of lipoproteins from plasma and prevents free cholesterol intracellular toxicity.
The MECP2 gene (methyl CpG binding protein 2) is located on chromosome Xq28.
DNA methylation is the major modification of eukaryotic genomes and plays an essential role in mammalian development.
Human proteins MECP2, MBD1, MBD2, MBD3, and MBD4 comprise a family of nuclear proteins related by the presence in each of a methyl-CpG binding domain (MBD).
Each of these proteins, with the exception of MBD3, is capable of binding specifically to methylated DNA.
MECP2, MBD1 and MBD2 can also repress transcription from methylated gene promoters.
In contrast to other MBD family members, MECP2 is X-linked and subject to X inactivation.
MECP2 is dispensible in stem cells, but is essential for embryonic development.
MECP2 gene mutations are the cause of most cases of Rett syndrome, a progressive neurologic developmental disorder and one of the most common causes of mental retardation in females.
From Stedman: any of various long-chain unsaturated isoprenoid alcohols found either free or phosphorylated in membranes of the endoplasmic reticulum and Golgi apparatus (from Gill Hill)
Non-specific screen for red cell enzyme deficiency
The NUDT15 (nudix hydrolase 15) gene encodes an enzyme that belongs to the Nudix hydrolase superfamily.
Members of this superfamily catalyze the hydrolysis of nucleoside diphosphates, including substrates like 8-oxo-dGTP, which are a result of oxidative damage, and can induce base mispairing during DNA replication, causing transversions.
The encoded enzyme is a negative regulator of thiopurine activation and toxicity.
Mutations in this gene result in poor metabolism of thiopurines, and are associated with thiopurine-induced early leukopenia.
Multiple pseudogenes of this gene have been identified.
Orotidine is a nucleoside formed by attaching orotic acid to a ribose ring via a β-N1-glycosidic bond.
It is found in bacteria, fungi and plants.
It was first isolated in 1951 from the fungus Neurospora by A. Michael Michelson, William Drell, and Herschel K. Mitchell.
In humans, orotidine occurs as its 5'-phosphate (orotidylic acid), which is an intermediate in pyrimidine nucleotide biosynthesis (cytidine and uridine) that are found in nucleic acids.
Orotidine itself is not a component of nucleic acid.
Large amounts of orotidine are excreted in the urine of cancer patients treated with 6-azauridine.
The symbol commonly used for orotidine is O or Ord.
MPL W515K + W515K mutations are present in patients with idiopathic myelofibrosis or essential thrombocythemia.
CD37, also known as Cluster of Differentiation 37, is a human gene.
The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the transmembrane 4 superfamily, also known as the tetraspanin family.
Most of these members are cell-surface proteins that are characterized by the presence of four hydrophobic domains.
The proteins mediate signal transduction events that play a role in the regulation of cell development, activation, growth and motility.
This encoded protein is a cell surface glycoprotein that is known to complex with integrins and other transmembrane
It may play a role in T-cell-B-cell interactions.
Alternate splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms.
Ves v 1 (phospholipase A1) is a major allergen found in yellow jacket venom.
CaM-Kinase II is a protein altering kinase that is activated when the intercellular Ca2+ concentrations increases and saturates the calmodulin (CaM) calcium binding sites.
CaM-Kinase II is important in synaptic plasticity and learning and memory due to involvement in translating intracellular Ca2+ signals.
Increased CaM Kinase II activity has been linked to an immune response to a group A streptococcus infection, which has been implicated in tic disorder and neuropsychiatric abnormalities, although this is controversial.
A condition in infancy or early childhood due to an in-utero deficiency of THYROID HORMONES that can be caused by genetic or environmental factors, such as thyroid dysgenesis or HYPOTHYROIDISM in infants of mothers treated with THIOURACIL during pregnancy.
Endemic cretinism is the result of iodine deficiency.
Clinical symptoms include severe MENTAL RETARDATION, impaired skeletal development, short stature, and MYXEDEMA.
The dialdehyde of malonic acid.
Energy expenditure is calculated based on the patient's oxygen consumption and carbon dioxide production.
Cytochrome P450-3A5 (CYP3A5; ), a member of the cytochrome P450 mixed-function oxidase system, is involved in the metabolism many drugs in current clinical use.
Genetic variations in CYP3A5 can affect the response (i.e., efficacy or toxicity) to drugs metabolized by CYP3A5 and selection of alternative dosing or agents may be necessary in individuals with specific CYP3A5 genetic variations.
Direct or indirect contact with bird allergens may cause sensitisation.
Bird allergens may be major components of house dust.
Found on all normal, mature T-cells, most thymocytes, minor B-cell subset Associated with B-cell CLL; Nodal small lymphocytic lymphoma; Mantle cell lymphoma; May be absent in peripheral T-cell lymphoma and plasmacytoid lymphoma; Most T-cell neoplasms
Ceftazidime is a third generation cephalosporin that exhibits broad-spectrum treatment against Gram-positive and Gram-negative aerobic bacteria.
It is especially effective against Enterobacteriaceae and is resistant to most beta-lactamases.
Avibactam is a synthetic non-beta-lactamase inhibitor that is used to treat class A serine carbapenemases including Klebsiella pneumoniae carbapenemase (KPC).
In 2011, the United States Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) recognized the gap in antimicrobials against carbapenemase-producing Enterobacteriaceae (CPE) and made the development of such new antimicrobials among its highest priorities.
Ceftazidime+Avibactam was approved by an expedited process in 2014 by the United States Food and Drug Administration (FDA) to treat complicated urinary infections caused by (CPE).
When ceftazidime+avibactam and metronidazole are use together, they are approved to treat complicated intra-abdominal CPE infections.
The first case of resistance of KPC to ceftazidime-avibactam occurred in 2015 in a patient who had never taken ceftazidime-avibactam.
A bacteriostatic antibiotic macrolide produced by Streptomyces erythreus.
Erythromycin A is considered its major active component.
In sensitive organisms, it inhibits protein synthesis by binding to 50S ribosomal subunits.
This binding process inhibits peptidyl transferase activity and interferes with translocation of amino acids during translation and assembly of proteins.
A barbiturate that is metabolized to PHENOBARBITAL.
It has been used for similar purposes, especially in EPILEPSY, but there is no evidence mephobarbital offers any advantage over PHENOBARBITAL.
The PROP1 gene (PROP paired-like homeobox 1) is located on chromosome 5q35.3.
This gene encodes a paired-like homeodomain transcription factor in the developing pituitary gland.
Expression occurs prior to and is required for expression of pou domain transcription factor 1, which is responsible for pituitary development and hormone expression.
Mutations in this gene have been associated with combined pituitary hormone deficiency-2 as well as deficiencies in luteinizing hormone, follicle-stimulating hormone, growth hormone, prolactin, and thyroid-stimulating hormone.
17-Hydroxypregnenetriol is a component of urinary steroid profiling analyses for diagnosing conditions such as congenital adrenal hyperplasia, 21-hydroxylase deficiency and 3-beta-hydroxysteroid dehyfrogenase deficiency.
Neuroblastoma 84 (NB84) monoclonal antibody is a useful biomarker for the differential diagnosis of neuroblastoma and other small round cell tumors.
NB84 reacts with neuroblastoma but rarely with other small round cell tumors, including lymphoma, Ewing's sarcoma (ES), primitive neuroectodermal tumors (PNETs), and blastemal Wilms' tumor.
Diagnostic problems often occur when these tumors present in an unusual clinical context,e.g. extraadrenal primary or metastatic neuroblastoma, or extraskeletal ES or rhabdomyosarcoma at an unusual location.
Intraabdominal and mediastinal locations are among the widest variation of differential diagnostic alternatives.
Cathepsin L2, also known as cathepsin V and encoded by the CTSL2 gene, is a human gene.
The protein encoded by this gene, a member of the peptidase C1 family, is a lysosomal cysteine proteinase that may play an important role in corneal physiology.
This gene is expressed in colorectal and breast carcinomas but not in normal colon, mammary gland, or peritumoral tissues, suggesting a possible role for this gene in tumor processes.
Lefamulin is an antibiotic in the pleuromutilin class and inhibits bacterial protein synthesis by selectively binding to the ribosomal peptidyl transferase center and interfering with peptide transfer.
It can be administered orally and intravenously and is effective against respiratory and skin pathogens, including Staphylococcus and Streptococcus species, gram-negative organisms such as Haemophilus influenzae, and atypical respiratory pathogens such as Mycoplasma and Chlamydophila pneumoniae and Legionella pneumophila.
As of early 2017, lefamulin is being studied in phase 3 clinical trials.
Stavudine (2'-3'-didehydro-2'-3'-dideoxythymidine, d4T, brand name Zerit) is a nucleoside analog reverse transcriptase inhibitor (NARTI) active against HIV.
Transmissible gastroenteritis virus (TGEV) is a coronovirus which causes an acute viral disease of swine.
It is a common diarrheal virus in pigs of all ages.
Jejunal and ileal villous epithelial cells are infected and destroyed by the virus.
It is extremely fatal to pigs under 3 weeks old, with mortality rates decreasing with age.
It is characterized by diarrhea and vomiting.
TGEV can also exist in an endemic form in swine herds where either partial immunity or a concurrent porcine respiratory coronavirus (PRCV) infection is present.
Since PRCV shares antibody neutralizing epitopes with TGEV, it acts like a vaccine against TGEV, making the disease less severe and causing lower mortality.
Liquid perfluorinated carbon compounds which may or may not contain a hetero atom such as nitrogen, oxygen or sulfur, but do not contain another halogen or hydrogen atom.
This concept includes fluorocarbon emulsions and fluorocarbon blood substitutes.
Nalbuphine (nalbuphine hydrochloride) is a synthetic opioid used commercially as an analgesic under a variety of trade names, including Nubain.
It is noteworthy in part for the fact that at low dosages, it is found much more effective by women than by men, and may even increase pain in men, leading to its discontinuation in the UK in 2003.
The F7 gene (coagulation factor VII (serum prothrombin conversion accelerator)) is located on chromosome 13q34.
This gene encodes coagulation factor VII which is a vitamin K-dependent factor essential for hemostasis.
This factor circulates in the blood in a zymogen form, and is converted to an active form by either factor IXa, factor Xa, factor XIIa, or thrombin by minor proteolysis.
Upon activation of the factor VII, a heavy chain containing a catalytic domain and a light chain containing 2 EGF-like domains are generated, and two chains are held together by a disulfide bond.
In the presence of factor III and calcium ions, the activated factor then further activates the coagulation cascade by converting factor IX to factor IXa and/or factor X to factor Xa.
Defects in this gene can cause coagulopathy.
Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding multiple isoforms have been observed for this gene.
Tilia is native to England and Wales, the south of Scotland, most of Western Europe except southern Spain, Italy and Greece, and parts of the USA.
Fifty species of Tilia occur from the north temperate regions downward; they are widely distributed in Europe, Asia and North America, and are found as far south as Indochina and Mexico.
Seven species are found on the North American continent.
The European species is often used as a street, park or lawn tree.
Tilia cordata is the most common species of Tilia.
Linden pollen can cause asthma, allergic rhinitis and allergic conjunctivitis
Estrogen is used to evaluate ovarian estrogen-producing tumors in premenarcheal and/or postmenopausal females and to evalute estrogen excess in males.
The GNPTAB gene (N-acetylglucosamine-1-phosphate transferase subunits alpha and beta) is located on chromosome 12q23.2.
This gene encodes two of three subunit types of the membrane-bound enzyme N-acetylglucosamine-1-phosphotransferase, a heterohexameric complex composed of two alpha, two beta, and two gamma subunits.
The encoded protein is proteolytically cleaved at the Lys928-Asp929 bond to yield mature alpha and beta polypeptides while the gamma subunits are the product of a distinct gene (GeneID 84572).
In the Golgi apparatus, the heterohexameric complex catalyzes the first step in the synthesis of mannose 6-phosphate recognition markers on certain oligosaccharides of newly synthesized lysosomal enzymes.
These recognition markers are essential for appropriate trafficking of lysosomal enzymes.
Mutations in this gene have been associated with both mucolipidosis II and mucolipidosis IIIA.
Aldicarb is a carbamate ester pesticide (Temik).
It is a white crystalline solid, moderately soluble in water, and susceptible to oxidation and hydrolytic reactions.
Exposure of the general population occurs mainly through food.
The ingestion of contaminated food has led to poisoning incidents from aldicarb and its toxic metabolites (sulfoxide and sulfone).
Due to its high acute toxicity, both inhalation and skin contact under occupational exposure conditions may be dangerous for workers if preventive measures are inadequate.
It is efficiently absorbed from the gastrointestinal tract and, to a lesser extent, through the skin, and could also be readily absorbed by the respiratory tract if dust were present.
The excretion is rapid and primarily via the urine.
Aldicarb does not accumulate in the body as a result of long-term exposure.
Non-fatal poisoning in man is rapidly reversible and recovery is aided by the administration of atropine.
There is no substantial evidence to indicate that aldicarb is teratogenic, mutagenic, carcinogenic, or immunotoxic.
α-Pinene is an organic compound of the terpene class, one of two isomers of pinene.
It is an alkene and it contains a reactive four-membered ring.
It is found in the oils of many species of many coniferous trees, notably the pine.
It is also found in the essential oil of rosemary (Rosmarinus officinalis).
Both enantiomers are known in nature; 1S,5S- or (−)-α-pinene is more common in European pines, whereas the 1R,5R- or (+)-α-isomer is more common in North America.
The racemic mixture is present in some oils such as eucalyptus oil.
A lipopeptide antibiotic that inhibits gram-positive bacteria.
Uranium-235 is an isotope of uranium making up about 0.72% of natural uranium.
Unlike the predominant isotope uranium-238 it is fissile, i.e. it can sustain fission chain reaction.
It is the only fissile isotope that is a primordial nuclide or found in significant quantity in nature.
Anti-cardiolipin antibodies (ACA) are antibodies often directed against cardiolipin and found in several diseases including syphilis, antiphospholipid syndrome, livedoid vasculitis, vertebrobasilar insufficiency, Behçet's syndrome, idiopathic spontaneous abortion, and systemic lupus erythematosus(SLE).
They are a form of anti-mitochondrial antibody.
In SLE, The anti-DNA antibodies and anti-cardiolipin act independently.
In rheumatoid arthritis with systemic sclerosis (scleroderma) these antibodies may tie two conditions together.
Anti-cardiolipin antibodies can be classified in two ways: As IgM, IgG or IgA As β2-glycoprotein dependent or independent In autoimmune disease ACA are beta-2 glycoprotein dependent syphilis ACA are beta-2 glycoprotein independent and can be assayed using the VDRL test
The MTM1 gene (myotubularin 1) is located on chromosome Xq28.
This gene encodes a dual-specificity phosphatase that acts on both phosphotyrosine and phosphoserine.
It is required for muscle cell differentiation and mutations in this gene have been identified as being responsible for X-linked myotubular myopathy.
Enzymes of the glutathione S-transferase (GST) family are composed of many cytosolic, mitochondrial, and microsomal (now designated as MAPEG) proteins.
GSTs are present in eukaryotes and in prokaryotes, where they catalyze a variety of reactions and accept endogenous and xenobiotic substrates.
Genetic polymorphisms in glutathione S-transferase and its altered expression and activity are associated with oxidative DNA damage and also damage of the kidney.
Subsequently the individual's risk of cancer susceptibility increases.
Large numbers of nucleated erythrocytes are found in hemolytic disease of the newborn, leukemias,and chronic myeloproliferative disorders.
A genus of coccidian protozoa that comprise the malaria parasites of mammals.
Four species infect humans (although occasional infections with primate malarias may occur).
These are PLASMODIUM FALCIPARUM; PLASMODIUM MALARIAE; PLASMODIUM OVALE, and PLASMODIUM VIVAX.
Species causing infection in vertebrates other than man include: PLASMODIUM BERGHEI; PLASMODIUM CHABAUDI; P. vinckei, and PLASMODIUM YOELII in rodents; P. brasilianum, PLASMODIUM CYNOMOLGI; and PLASMODIUM KNOWLESI in monkeys; and PLASMODIUM GALLINACEUM in chickens.
Nitroimidazole derivative used for the treatment of anaerobic infections and trichomonas infections.
IgE-mediated hypersensitivity is likely in some cases.
Cross-reactivity between metronidazole and tinidazole (fixed drug eruption).
Cholinesterase is measured to diagnose organophosphate and carbamate toxicity or identify atypical enzyme forms.
RBC levels measured to detect chronic exposure to systemic insecticides.
Insecticides inhibit both RBC and plasma cholinesterase levels, but serum levels return to normal before RBC levels normalize.
Cholinesterase is irreversibly inhibited by organophosphate insecticides and reversibly inhibited by carbamate insecticides.
Information from LOINC partner 1 2006 10 24.
Pseudocholinesterase is also known as plasma cholinesterase, butyrylcholinesterase, or (most formally) acyl choline acylhydrolase, found primarily in the liver.
An absence or mutation of the pseudocholinesterase enzyme leads to a medical condition known as pseudocholinesterase deficiency, which is a silent condition which only manifests itself when people who have the deficiency receive the muscle relaxants succinylcholine or mivacurium during surgery.
Decay accelerating factor (CD55) is a 70 kDa membrane protein that regulates the complement system on the cell surface.
It prevents the assembly of the C3bBb complex (the C3-convertase of the alternative pathway) or accelerates the disassembly of preformed convertase, thus blocking the formation of the membrane attack complex.
This glycoprotein is broadly distributed among hematopoietic and non-hematopoietic cells.
It is a determinant for the Cromer blood group system.
The estimated number of years of life remaining at a given age.
Chemicals used to destroy pests of any sort.
The concept includes fungicides (FUNGICIDES, INDUSTRIAL); INSECTICIDES; RODENTICIDES; etc.
The small hydrophobic (SH) gene is one of seven genes contained within the single-stranded mumps virus (MuV) genomic RNA.
The other six include nucleocapsid (N), phospho (P), membrane (M), fusion (F), hemagglutinin-neuraminidase (HN), and large (L) genes.
At least 12 genotypes (A to N, excluding E and M) have been described based on genomic characteristics of the SH gene.
The SH gene is analyzed for genetic characterization of MuV and detection of MuV RNA in clinical specimens.
Trimethoprim is a synthetic (man-made) antibiotic that interferes with the production of tetrahydrofolic acid, a chemical necessary in protein production.
The drug inhibits the enzyme responsible for making tetrahydrofolic acid from dihydrofolic acid.
Trimethoprim inhibits the bacterial enzyme more than the corresponding human enzyme, so it has less effect on the production of tetrahydrofolic acid by humans.
It is effective against a wide variety of bacteria.
Garenoxacin (INN) is a quinolone antibiotic for the treatment of gram-positive and gram-negative bacterial infections.
T-cell receptors (TCR) are composed of two polypeptide chains.
The majority of TCRs have an alpha and a beta chain, but a small subset have gamma and delta chains.
T cells with TCR gamma delta show less TCR diversity compared to TCR alpha beta and are more common at epithelial surfaces.
TCR gamma delta cells may also have some antitumor and immunoregulatory function.
Immature reticulocytes, also called shift or stress cells, normally make up less than 5% of the total number of reticulocytes.
They are released into the circulation during intense erythropoietic stimulation.
2-oxoisocaproate is a branched-chain 2-oxo acid (BCOA) that accumulates in maple syrup urine disease (MSUD).
Increased levels of BCOAs is associated with chronic dysmyelinating changes in the central nervous system (CNS).
Grade 1 sperm wriggle sluggishly and make little forward progress.
(Sperm that actually clump together may indicate that antibodies to the sperm are present.)
A species of bacteria that resemble small tightly coiled spirals.
Its organisms are known to cause abortion in sheep and fever and enteritis in man and may be associated with enteric diseases of calves, lambs, and other animals.
Product reporting information from animal drug outsourcing compounding facilities.
3,4-Methylenedioxyamphetamine (MDA), also known as tenamfetamine (INN), is a psychedelic, stimulant, and empathogen-entactogen of the phenethylamine and amphetamine chemical classes.
It is mainly used as a recreational drug, an entheogen, and a tool in use to supplement various types of practices for transcendence.
The Lipoprotein insulin resistance (LP-IR) score, an assessment of insulin resistance that combines the results of 6 lipoprotein particle numbers and sizes based on their differential strengths of association with insulin resistance.
The results are reported on a scale ranging from 0 (most insulin sensitive) to 100 (most insulin resistant).
Red blood cells (RBCs) have surface antigens that play a role in determining compatibility for blood transfusions and organ transplants.
The common antigens on RBCs are from the ABO system and include A, B and H antigens.
The H antigen is a carbohydrate on the RBC surface which is the biosynthetic precursor required for the expression of the A and B antigens.
Cells that express H antigen and lack A and B antigens are, by default, in blood group O.
In rare cases, the H antigen is not expressed on the red cell membrane at all, which is described as having an O sub h or Bombay phenotype.
Individuals with the Bombay phenotype produce antibodies to the A, B and H antigens, which antibodies are capable of activating complement and causing hemolysis.
The only blood that a patient with Bombay phenotype may receive is that from another person who also expresses the Bombay phenotype.
(AABB Technical Manual, 18th edition)
Phosphofructokinase (PFK) is a kinase enzyme that phosphorylates fructose-6-phosphate to fructose-1,6-bisphosphate in the glycolytic pathway.
PFK exists as a homotetramer in bacteria and mammals (where each monomer possesses 2 similar domains) and as an octomer in yeast (where there are 4 alpha- (PFK1) and 4 beta-chains (PFK2)).
Deficiency in PFK leads to glycogenosis type VII (Tarui's disease), an autosomal recessive disorder characterised by severe nausea, vomiting, muscle cramps and myoglobinuria in response to bursts of intense or vigorous exercise.
Individuals with PFK deficiency are usually able to relieve symptoms by adjusting activity levels.
Oxycodone is a semisynthetic narcotic analgesic classified by the US Drug Enforcement Administration as a Schedule II controlled substance with an abuse liability similar to morphine.
The PPT1 gene (palmitoyl-protein thioesterase 1) is located on chromosome 1p32.
The protein encoded by this gene is a small glycoprotein involved in the catabolism of lipid-modified proteins during lysosomal degradation.
The encoded enzyme removes thioester-linked fatty acyl groups such as palmitate from cysteine residues.
Defects in this gene are a cause of infantile neuronal ceroid lipofuscinosis 1 (CLN1, or INCL) and neuronal ceroid lipofuscinosis 4 (CLN4).
Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
Niobium (formerly columbium) a chemical element symbol Nb (formerly Cb) and atomic number 41, is a soft, grey, ductile transition metal found in the pyrochlore mineral.
The temperature stability of niobium-containing super alloys is important for its use in jet and rocket engines.
Niobium alloyed with tin and titanium, are widely used in the superconducting magnets of MRI scanners and, alloyed with titanium, in medical implants.
Other applications of niobium include its use in welding, nuclear industries, electronics, optics, numismatics and jewelry.
Niobium has no known biological role.
While niobium dust is an eye and skin irritant and a potential fire hazard, elemental niobium on a larger scale is physiologically inert (and thus hypoallergenic) and harmless.
Niobium-containing compounds are rarely encountered by most people, but some are toxic.
There are increasing concerns regarding its public health risks in terms of heavy metal toxicity.
The health risks to humans have been suggested to be similar to heavy metals if niobium leaches into our drinking water.
Acer negundo is a species of maple (Acer) that grows throughout much of North America.
Dermatophagoides microceras (Phadia allergen code d3) is a house dust mite species first described in 1971 and part of the Pyroglyphidae family of mites.
The mite has been identified in house dust in various geographic regions, including Great Britain, Scandinavia, the Netherlands, Spain and the United States.
Allergies to dust mites are associated with allergic rhinitis and asthma.
To date, only one allergen has been identified in D. microceras.
Adequacy of infant formula intake in relation to nutrient needs.
Norbuprenorphine is the primary active metabolite of buprenorphine, and its mean steady-state plasma concentration is comparable to or even exceeds that of buprenorphine following sublingual buprenorphine absorption (Kuhlman et al., 1998).
It is likely to contribute to the overall pharmacological effects of buprenorphine.
Buprenorphine and norbuprenorphine displayed distinct pharmacological properties at mu-opioid, delta-opioid, and kappa-opioid receptors and the ORL1 receptor.
Tetrahydrocannabivarin (THCV, THV) is a secondary metabolite of tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) having a propyl side chain.
This terpeno-phenolic compound is found naturally in cannabis, occasionally in significant amounts.
The psychoactive effects of THCV preparations are not well described.
Chromosome analysis performed during the interphase stage of cell division.
Norcocaine is a minor metabolite of cocaine.
It is the only confirmed pharmacologically active metabolite of cocaine, although salicylmethylecgonine is also speculated to be an active metabolite.
Oleandrin is a toxic cardiac glycoside found in oleander (Nerium oleander).
Along with neandrin it is primarily responsible for the toxicity of the sap of oleander.
Ingestion of oleander can cause both gastrointestinal and cardiac effects.
The gastrointestinal effects can consist of nausea and vomiting, excess salivation, abdominal pain, diarrhea that may or may not contain blood, and, especially in horses, colic.
Cardiac reactions consist of irregular heart rate, sometimes characterized by a racing heart at first that then slows to below normal further along in the reaction.
The heart may also beat erratically with no sign of a specific rhythm.
Extremities may become pale and cold due to poor or irregular circulation.
Reactions to poisonings from this plant can also affect the central nervous system.
These symptoms can include drowsiness, tremors or shaking of the muscles, seizures, collapse, and even coma that can lead to death.
Oleander sap can cause skin irritations, severe eye inflammation and irritation, and allergy reactions characterized by dermatitis.
The GNE gene (glucosamine (UDP-N-acetyl)-2-epimerase/N-acetylmannosamine kinase) is located on chromosome 9p13.3.
The protein encoded by this gene is a bifunctional enzyme that initiates and regulates the biosynthesis of N-acetylneuraminic acid (NeuAc), a precursor of sialic acids.
It is a rate-limiting enzyme in the sialic acid biosynthetic pathway.
Sialic acid modification of cell surface molecules is crucial for their function in many biologic processes, including cell adhesion and signal transduction.
Differential sialylation of cell surface molecules is also implicated in the tumorigenicity and metastatic behavior of malignant cells.
Mutations in this gene are associated with sialuria, autosomal recessive inclusion body myopathy, and Nonaka myopathy.
Alternative splicing of this gene results in transcript variants encoding different isoforms.
Intrinsic factor is a glycoprotein produced by the parietal cells of the stomach.
It is necessary for the absorption of vitamin B12 later on in the small intestine.
Upon entry into the stomach, vitamin B12 becomes bound to one of two B12 binding proteins present in gastric juice.
In the less acidic environment of the small intestine, these proteins dissociate from the vitamin, enabling it to bind to intrinsic factor and enter the portal circulation through a receptor in the ileal mucosa specific for the B12 -intrinsic factor complex.
In pernicious anemia, an autoimmune disease, autoantibodies directed against intrinsic factor or parietal cells themselves lead to an intrinsic factor deficiency, malabsorption of vitamin B12, and subsequent megaloblastic anemia.
Atrophic gastritis can also cause intrinsic factor deficiency and anemia through damage to the parietal cells of the stomach wall.
Nidus, latin for "nest", represents a nest in shape or function.
The point of origin or focus of a morbid process (Dorland's, 26th ed) Web definitions
Spherical equivalent is the spherical power that brings an eye with astigmatism into meridional balance.
O'nyong-nyong virus (ONNV) was isolated in 1959 in Gulu, Uganda.
Following the discovery ONNV has been responsible for several outbreaks in humans that occurred in East Africa.
ONNV belongs in the family Togaviridae, genus Alphavirus.
ONNV is a mosquito-borne arthritogenic alphavirus.
Vectors include Anopheles funestus and A. gambiae.
ONNV produces symptoms of fever, headache, joint pains, and rash .
The FMR1 gene (fragile X mental retardation 1) is located on chromosome Xq27.3.
The protein encoded by this gene binds RNA and is associated with polysomes.
The encoded protein may be involved in mRNA trafficking from the nucleus to the cytoplasm.
A trinucleotide repeat (CGG) in the 5' UTR is normally found at 6-53 copies, but an expansion to 55-230 repeats is the cause of fragile X syndrome.
Expansion of the trinucleotide repeat may also cause one form of premature ovarian failure (POF1).
Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants that encode different protein isoforms and which are located in different cellular locations have been described for this gene.
The PINK1 gene (PTEN induced putative kinase 1) is located on chromosome 1p36.
This gene encodes a serine/threonine protein kinase that localizes to mitochondria.
It is thought to protect cells from stress-induced mitochondrial dysfunction.
Mutations in this gene cause one form of autosomal recessive early-onset Parkinson disease.
Mutations in the ITGA2B gene causes Glanzmann thrombasthenia (GT), a rare autosomal recessive bleeding disorder characterized by quantitative and/or qualitative defects of the platelet glycoprotein (GP) IIb/IIIa complex.
Taxus is a genus of yews, small coniferous trees or shrubs in the yew family Taxaceae.
Glycophorin A (MNS blood group), also known as GYPA, is a human gene.
GYPA has also recently been designated CD235a (cluster of differentiation 235a).
Glycophorins A (GYPA) and B (GYPB) are major sialoglycoproteins of the human erythrocyte membrane which bear the antigenic determinants for the MN and Ss blood groups.
GYPA gene consists of 7 exons and has 97% sequence homology with GYPB from the 5' UTR to the coding sequence encoding the first 45 amino acids.
In addition to the M or N and S or s antigens, that commonly occur in all populations, about 40 related variant phenotypes have been identified.
These variants include all the variants of the Miltenberger complex and several isoforms of Sta; also, Dantu, Sat, He, Mg, and deletion variants Ena, S-s-U- and Mk.
Most of the variants are the result of gene recombinations between GYPA and GYPB.
Dried unripe berries from a tropical evergreen tree of the myrtle family (Myrtaceae) are the source of the highly aromatic spice allspice.
Ground allspice, or the whole berry, is widely used in a variety of food products, such as pickles, ketchup, seafood seasoning, curry powder, formulations for sausages, pickled meats and fish products, in sweet goods baking, puddings and fruit preparations.
Allspice is also used in herbal therapies and as a perfume for soaps.
Hot allspice tea has been used for colds, menstrual cramps and upset stomachs.
Allspice oil contains the chemical eugenol, which may be used to promote digestive enzyme activity and as a pain reliever.
Dentists sometimes use eugenol as a local anesthetic for teeth and gums.
Phenmetrazine (Preludin, PAL-592) is a stimulant drug of the morpholine chemical class that was previously used as an appetite suppressant, but has since been withdrawn from the market.
It was initially replaced by its analogue phendimetrazine which functions as a prodrug to phenmetrazine, but now it is rarely prescribed, due to concerns of abuse and addiction.
The EYA1 gene (EYA transcriptional coactivator and phosphatase 1) is located on chromosome 8q13.3.
This gene encodes a member of the eyes absent (EYA) family of proteins.
The encoded protein may play a role in the developing kidney, branchial arches, eye, and ear.
Mutations of this gene have been associated with branchiootorenal dysplasia syndrome, branchiootic syndrome, and sporadic cases of congenital cataracts and ocular anterior segment anomalies.
A similar protein in mice can act as a transcriptional activator.
Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been identified for this gene.
Butorphanol (INN) is a morphinan -type synthetic opioid analgesic marketed in the U.S. under the trade name Stadol.
It is most closely structurally related to dextromethorphan.
Butorphanol is available only as butorphanol tartrate in injectable and intranasal spray formulations.
Desloratadine is a drug used to treat allergies.
It is marketed under several trade names such as NeoClarityn, Claramax, Clarinex, Aerius and Delot (by Apex Pharma Ltd. in Bangladesh).
It is an active metabolite of loratadine, which is also on the market.
16-Alpha hydroxypregnenolone is, among other steroids like pregnanetriol (P3), an important marker in the urinary steroid excretion profile for the occurrence of an adrenal 21-hydroxylase-deficiency and it's concentration also is an indication for the effectiveness of medication (cortisol suppletion) against this disease.
Transaldolase is an enzyme of the non-oxidative phase of the pentose phosphate pathway, which has two metabolic functions: (1) generation of nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate (reduced NADPH), for reductive biosynthesis, and (2) formation of ribose which is an essential component of ATP, DNA, and RNA.
Transaldolase links the pentose phosphate pathway to glycolysis.
In patients with deficiency of transaldolase, there's an accumulation of erythritol (from erythrose 4-phosphate), D-arabitol, and ribitol.
In humans, transaldolase is encoded by the TALDO1 gene.
A deletion in 3 base pair at position 171 of the transaldolase protein results in a mutation that causes the transaldolase deficiency found in erythrocytes and lymphoblasts.
The deletion can lead to liver cirrhosis and hepatosplenomegaly (enlarged spleen and liver) during early infancy.
Transaldolase is also a target of autoimmunity in patients with multiple sclerosis.
Salmonella is a genus of rod-shaped, Gram-negative, non-spore forming, predominantly motile enterobacteria with diameters around 0.7 to 1.5 µm, lengths from 2 to 5 µm, and flagella which project in all directions (i.e. peritrichous).
Strains of Salmonella cause illnesses such as typhoid fever, paratyphoid fever, and food poisoning (salmonellosis).
A genus of CHLAMYDOPHILA infecting primarily birds.
It contains eight known serovars, some of which infect more than one type of host, including humans.
Hydroxyphenyllactic acid is a tyrosine metabolite.
The level of hydroxyphenyllactic acid is elevated in patients with deficiency of the enzyme p-hydroxyphenylpyruvate oxidase .
Eculizumab is monoclonal antibody that binds to the C5 complement component and is used to treat atypical hemolytic uremic syndrome (aHUS).
aHUS is characterized by hemolytic anemia that leads to the presence of schistocytes, thrombocytopenia, renal damage, and other organ system impairment.
aHUS is caused by a rare genetic mutation that interferes with the regulation of the complement system and leads to thrombotic microangiopathy (TMA).
Prior to the development of eculizumab, the only treatment for aHUS was plasmapheresis, which did not stop progressive organ impairment.
Eculizumab is an extremely expensive but effective therapy against aHUS and provides good outcomes and improved quality of life for patients with aHUS.
Eculizumab has also been found to increase the possibility for the repair of renal damage.
Measurement of eculizumab in serum is used for monitoring and therapy optimization.
Robinia pseudoacacia, commonly known as the Black Locust, is a tree in the subfamily Faboideae of the pea family Fabaceae.
It is native to the southeastern United States, but has been widely planted and naturalized elsewhere in temperate North America, Europe, Southern Africa and Asia and is considered an invasive species in some areas.
A less frequently used common name is False Acacia, which is a literal translation of the specific epithet.
The complement terminal complement complex (TCC) is comprised of complements C5b, C6, C7, C8, and C9 (C5b-9) and is a marker of complement activation.
There are two forms of TCC: 1.
Soluble TCC is formed when C5b-7 that is not associated with a lipid membrane binds to C8 and C9.
SC5b-9 is soluble TCC that is bound to a plasma protein such as S-protein (vitronectin) or clusterin.
Plasma SC5b-9 is the non-functional form of C5b-9 and is a non-specific marker of complement activation and inflammation.;
2. The membrane attack complex (MAC), a barrel-like structure spanning a cell's lipid bilayer that mediates complement cytotoxicity, is formed when C8 and C9 bind to C5b-7 that is already associated with a membrane, and is the functional form of C5b-9.
Uroprophyrinogen Decarboxylase (Upg D) deficiency of Upg D activity causes an accumulation of uroporphyrins and hepta-, hexa-, and pentacarboxyl porphyrins in the skin, subcutaneous tissues, and liver, often resulting in the most common form of porphyria, porphyria cutanea tarda (PCT).
Rarely, hepatoerythropoietic porphyria (HEP) results.
Photosensitivity and skin fragility occurs in both PCT and HEP.
HEP presents in early childhood, while PCT usually presents in adults.
PCT type I and type III are associated with normal red cell Upg D activity, while PCT type II will have decreased red cell Upg D activity.
About 20% of porphphyria cutanea tartada patients are PCT type II.
Information from Tietz Clinical Guide to Laboratory Tests, A.Wu, 4th ed, 2006.
Shagbark hickory has allergen code t91.
Shagbark hickory(Carya ovata) belongs to the Juglandaceae family in the Hickory/Pecan genera.
Pecan tree pollen is considered to be highly allergenic.
The tree produces a non-toxic, colorless, chemical called hydrojuglone which becomes highly toxic when exposed to air or soil compounds.
An insect, which may cause allergy symptoms in sensitized individuals.
P. dominulus, P. gallicus, P. biglumis and, to a lesser extent, P. ninphus are the most widely spread in Europe and are especially relevant in Mediterranean areas, while P. annularis, P. fuscatus, P. metricus, P. apachus and P. exclamans are present in the USA.
IgE-mediated reactions often present as large local manifestations, with swelling extending from the sting site, erythema, and pain.
Reactions may remain local, or become regional, or become generalised, with anaphylactic symptoms such as urticaria, flushing and angioedema, as well as more serious respiratory and cardiovascular symptoms.
The reactions can be fatal.
Immediate and delayed reactions are seen, delayed ones being less common.
Anaphylactic reactions to Hymenoptera stings are not dose-dependent or related to the number of stings.
Most deaths related to Hymenoptera stings are the result of immediate hypersensitivity reactions that result in anaphylaxis.
Platelet dry mass distribution width (PMDW) is the standard deviation of the platelet dry mass distribution and a measure of the variability of platelet density.
Disseminated intravascular coagulation (DIC) is associated with the dramatic hemostasis activation, with evidence of fibrin creation and platelet consumption.
PMDW may be increased in DIC patient mortality and thus may provide prognostic evidence on mortality for patients suspected of having DIC.
Aciclovir or acyclovir (USAN, former BAN) is a guanine analogue antiviral drug used most commonly for the treatment of herpes simplex virus infection.
It is one of the most commonly-used antiviral drugs, and is most commonly marketed under the trade name Zovirax (GSK).
Aciclovir was seen as the start of a new era in antiviral therapy, as it is extremely selective and low in cytotoxicity.
Pharmacologist Gertrude B. Elion was awarded the 1988 Nobel Prize in Medicine partly for the development of aciclovir.
Left ventricular (LV) systolic dyssynchrony represents variability in the timing of contraction in different LV myocardial segments and is an indicator of LV systolic dysfunction.
LV dyssynchrony is evaluated using cardiac gated SPECT and is based on time to end-systole (TES) measurements for each of the 17 LV segments.
The TES measures the time from the end of diastole, which is the same for all segments, to the end of systole, which varies across segments depending on the degree of LV dysfunction.
The maximum difference in time to end-systole (MDTES), is the lag between the earliest and the latest end-systole among the 17 LV segments.
The standard deviation of time to end-systole (SDTES) is the standard deviation of TES among all of 17 LV segments.
Increasing MDTES and SDTES values, which represent increasing LV dyssynchrony, are associated with decreased LV ejection fraction and LV dysfunction.
The difference in time to end-systole between the lateral and septal segments (DTES-LS) is also derived from the TES.
MDTES, SDTES and DTES-LS are typically expressed as percentages.
This gene encodes beta-2-adrenergic receptor which is a member of the G protein-coupled receptor superfamily.
This receptor is directly associated with one of its ultimate effectors, the class C L-type calcium channel Ca(V)1.2.
This receptor-channel complex also contains a G protein, an adenylyl cyclase, cAMP-dependent kinase, and the counterbalancing phosphatase, PP2A. The assembly of the signaling complex provides a mechanism that ensures specific and rapid signaling by this G protein-coupled receptor.
This receptor is also a transcription regulator of the alpha-synuclein gene, and together, both genes are believed to be associated with risk of Parkinson's Disease.
This gene is intronless.
Different polymorphic forms, point mutations, and/or downregulation of this gene are associated with nocturnal asthma, obesity, type 2 diabetes and cardiovascular disease.
The NCF1 gene (neutrophil cytosolic factor 1) is located on chromosome 7q11.23.
The protein encoded by this gene is a 47 kDa cytosolic subunit of neutrophil NADPH oxidase.
This oxidase is a multicomponent enzyme that is activated to produce superoxide anion.
Mutations in this gene have been associated with chronic granulomatous disease.
Spermatozoa agglutination refers to motile spermatozoa sticking to each other.
This is different than spermatozoa aggregation which refers to immotile spermatozoa adhering to each other or of motile spermatozoa adhering to mucus strands, non-sperm cells, or debris.(WHO laboratory manual for the Examination and processing of human semen FIFTH EDITION)
A high-molecular-weight proteoglycan-platelet factor complex which is released from blood platelets by thrombin.
It acts as a mediator in the heparin-neutralizing capacity of the blood and plays a role in platelet aggregation.
At high ionic strength (I=0.75), the complex dissociates into the active component (molecular weight 29,000) and the proteoglycan carrier (chondroitin 4-sulfate, molecular weight 350,000).
The molecule exists in the form of a dimer consisting of 8 moles of platelet factor 4 and 2 moles of proteoglycan.
The KEL gene (Kell blood group, metallo-endopeptidase) is located on chromosome 7q33.
This gene encodes a type II transmembrane glycoprotein that is the highly polymorphic Kell blood group antigen.
The Kell glycoprotein links via a single disulfide bond to the XK membrane protein that carries the Kx antigen.
The encoded protein contains sequence and structural similarity to members of the neprilysin (M13) family of zinc endopeptidases.
Nivalenol (NIV) is a trichothecene mycotoxin produced by various Fusarium species.
When mycotoxins, such as NIV, accumulate to high levels, they can make harvested grains and their by-products unsuitable for human and animal consumption.
The toxic effects of NIV include immunotoxicity and haematotoxicity.
Corrective lenses use prism to adjust image perception with both eyes to a single fused image.
Each lens may have a horizontal, in (towards the nose) or out (towards the temple) and/or vertical, up or down, prism base.
Prism measurements are reported in X-Y orthogonal coordinates (horizontal in/out, vertical up/down) or P-B polar coordinates (prism plus the angle of the prism base direction).
Prism lenses are commonly used to treat diplopia and strabismus.
The WFS1 gene (Wolfram syndrome 1 (wolframin)) is located on chromosome 4p16.1.
This gene encodes a transmembrane protein, which is located primarily in the endoplasmic reticulum and ubiquitously expressed with highest levels in brain, pancreas, heart, and insulinoma beta-cell lines.
Mutations in this gene are associated with Wolfram syndrome, also called DIDMOAD (Diabetes Insipidus, Diabetes Mellitus, Optic Atrophy, and Deafness), an autosomal recessive disorder.
The disease affects the brain and central nervous system.
Mutations in this gene can also cause autosomal dominant deafness 6 (DFNA6), also known as DFNA14 or DFNA38.
Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been found for this gene.
Bet V 2 (also called Profilin) is birch pollen allergen -which like Bet V1 is cross-reactive with similar proteins from many fruits and vegetables including potatoes and mugwort .The respiratory tract is probably initial route of sensitization.
Isovalerylglycine is an acyl glycine.
Acyl glycines are normally minor metabolites of fatty acids.
However, the excretion of certain acyl glycines is increased in several inborn errors of metabolism.
In certain cases the measurement of these metabolites in body fluids can be used to diagnose disorders associated with mitochondrial fatty acid beta-oxidation.
Acyl glycines are produced through the action of glycine N-acyltransferase which is an enzyme that catalyzes the chemical reaction: acyl-CoA + glycine < -- > CoA + N-acylglycine Isovalerylglycine is a byproduct of the catabolism of the aminoacid leucine.
Accumulation of isovalerylglycine occurs in Isovaleric Acidemia (IVA).
IVA (OMIM/ McKusick 243500) is an autosomal recessive disorder caused by mutations in the isovaleryl-CoA dehydrogenase gene.
The deficiency of this enzyme in the metabolism of leucine leads to the accumulation of a series of isovaleryl-CoA metabolites, such as isovalerylglycine (IVG).
It is very important to caution for false positive results when screening for isovaleric acidemia by tandem mass spectrometry based on dried blood-spot levels of C5-acylcarnitines, including isovalerylcarnitine and its isomer, pivaloylcarnitine; pivaloylcarnitine is derived from pivalate-generating antibiotics, and has caused many false-positive results. .
In enzymology, a glucosamine N-acetyltransferase is an enzyme that catalyzes the chemical reaction acetyl-CoA + D-glucosamine to CoA + N-acetyl-D-glucosamine.
Thus, the two substrates of this enzyme are acetyl-CoA and D-glucosamine, whereas its two products are CoA and N-acetyl-D-glucosamine.
This enzyme belongs to the family of transferases, specifically those acyltransferases transferring groups other than aminoacyl groups.
The systematic name of this enzyme class is acetyl-CoA:D-glucosamine N-acetyltransferase.
Other names in common use include glucosamine acetylase, and glucosamine acetyltransferase.
This enzyme participates in aminosugars metabolism.
Direct or indirect contact with chicken allergens may cause sensitisation.
Surgical removal of an obstructing clot or foreign material which has been transported from a distant vessel by the bloodstream.
Removal of a clot at its original site is called THROMBECTOMY.
NADH cytochrome c reductase (NADH-CoQ reductase, Complex I+III) is part of the electron transport system (ETS).
The activity level of Complex I+III is measured as part of mitochondrial and metabolic testing to assess neurodegenerative diseases.
The sensory neuropathy grade using the National Cancer Institute (NCI) Common Toxicity Criteria (CTC) scale.
Peripheral sensory neuropathy is a disorder characterized by inflammation or degeneration of the peripheral sensory nerves.
An intermediate filament protein found in most differentiating cells, in cells grown in tissue culture, and in certain fully differentiated cells.
Its insolubility suggests that it serves a structural function in the cytoplasm.
Gamma-enolase, also known as enolase 2 (ENO2) or neuron specific enolase (NSE), is an enzyme that in humans is encoded by the ENO2 gene.
Gamma-enolase is a phosphopyruvate hydratase.
Detection of NSE with antibodies can be used to identify neuronal cells and cells with neuroendocrine differentiation.
NSE is produced by small cell carcinomas which are neuroendocrine in origin.
NSE is therefore a useful tumor marker for lung cancer patients.
2-Methylcitrate (methylcitric acid (MCA)) is measured as a second-tier assay when abnormal propionyl carnitine or methionine concentrations are identified in a primary newborn screen.
Methylmalonic acidemia (MMA) and propionic acidemia (PA) are defects of propionate metabolism caused by deficiencies in methylmalonyl-CoA mutase and propionyl-CoA carboxylase, respectively.
The clinical phenotype of both conditions includes vomiting, hypotonia, lethargy, apnea, hypothermia, and coma in the newborn period, and both MMA and PA are associated with elevated MCA and propionyl carnitine concentrations.
MMA and PA can be distinguished based on methylmalonic acid concentration, which is elevated in MMA and normal in PA.
Narcissus is the botanic name for a genus of mainly hardy, mostly spring-flowering, bulbs in the Amaryllis family native to Europe, North Africa, and Asia.
Inversions in either intron 1 or intron 22 in the F8 gene together account for 45-50% of mutations associated with severe hemophilia A (HA) in males.
These inversions are typically not identified in patients with mild or moderate HA.
When an inversion mutation is identified in a family, males affected with severe hemophilia A in the same family may be tested for the mutation.
At-risk females also may be tested to determine their hemophilia A carrier status.
Aztreonam (Azactam®) is a monocyclic beta-lactam antibiotic (a monobactam) originally isolated from Chromobacterium violaceum.
It is resistant to some beta-lactamases, but is inactivated by extended-spectrum beta-lactamases.
Aztreonam is effective against gram-negative bacteria, including Pseudomonas aeruginosa.
It is not effective against gram-positive bacteria or anaerobes.
Aztreonam has to be administered intravenously, as the compound is poorly absorbed when given orally.
Side-effects include reactions at the injection site, diarrhea and other gastro-intestinal symptoms.
There is limited cross-reactivity between aztreonam and other beta-lactam antibiotics, and it is generally considered safe to admininister aztreonam to patients allergic to penicillin.
Enterobacter aerogenes, E. amnigenus and E. gergoviae are phenotypically and genetically similar similar species that are part of the Enterobacter non-cloacae complex.
They are rod-shaped, non-spore-forming, facultative anaerobes and significant nosocomial, pathogenic bacterium.
They cause lower respiratory tract infections, skin and soft-tissue infections, urinary tract infections (UTIs) and various other infections in hospital settings.
Some are intrinsically resistant to ampicillin, amoxicillin, and cephalosporins.
Enzyme that allows a cell to utilize an alternate metabolic pathway for incorporating thymidine into DNA.
Used as a selectable marker to identify transfected eukaryotic cells.
Pinheads are basically free tails which have no chromatin or head structure anterior to the basal plate.
As such it is not really a 'head' defect, perse.
Meclonazepam is a benzodiazepine derivative similar in structure to clonazepam.
It has sedative and anxiolytic actions like those of other benzodiazepines, and also has anti-parasitic effects against the parasitic worm Schistosoma mansoni.
The HR2 allele is a complex haplotype in exon 13 of the Factor V (F5) gene that consists of multiple polymorphisms throughout the gene, at least 4 of which result in amino acid changes.
The HR2 allele may result in lower FV levels, and patients who are compound heterozygous carriers of both HR2 and FV Leiden have increased resistance to activated protein C (APC) and a pro-thrombotic phenotype.
In fact, coinheritance of HR2 with the FV Leiden mutation is associated with a 3-4-fold increased risk of venous thrombosis compared to inheritance of FV Leiden alone.
The defining amino acid change of HR2 was originally thought to be His1299Arg, but after realizing that multiple missense variations are co-inherited with the His1299Arg change and by expressing each variant in isolation using recombinant DNA techniques, it was subsequently found that the Asp2194Gly change is the most important .
White ash is a tall, deciduous, long-lived tree, growing to a height of between 18 m and 40 m. Pollens from White ash can induce asthma, allergic rhinitis and allergic conjunctivitis.
Human adenovirus (HAdV) types 3, 7, 11, 14, 16, and 21 (all species B) and type 4 (species E) are most often associated with epidemic acute respiratory illness (ARI).
There are seven recognized HAdV species (A to G) with over 50 immunologically distinct types named across species.
HAdVs commonly infect children, causing diseases of the respiratory, ocular (conjunctivitis), and gastrointestinal tracts.
Most infections are mild and require only treatment of symptoms, but severe and occasionally fatal infections have been reported in various populations, such as infants and immunodeficient patients.
The HBA2 gene (hemoglobin, alpha 2) is located on chromosome 16p13.3.
The human alpha globin gene cluster located on chromosome 16 spans about 30 kb and includes seven loci: 5'- zeta - pseudozeta - mu - pseudoalpha-1 - alpha-2 - alpha-1 - theta - 3'.
The alpha-2 (HBA2) and alpha-1 (HBA1) coding sequences are identical.
These genes differ slightly over the 5' untranslated regions and the introns, but they differ significantly over the 3' untranslated regions.
Two alpha chains plus two beta chains constitute HbA, which in normal adult life comprises about 97% of the total hemoglobin; alpha chains combine with delta chains to constitute HbA-2, which with HbF (fetal hemoglobin) makes up the remaining 3% of adult hemoglobin.
Alpha thalassemias result from deletions of each of the alpha genes as well as deletions of both HBA2 and HBA1; some nondeletion alpha thalassemias have also been reported.
2-Hydroxybutyric acid (or alpha-hydroxybutyrate) is a hydroxybutyric acid with the hydroxyl group on the carbon adjacent to the carboxyl.
It is a chiral compound having two enantiomers, D-2-hydroxybutyric acid and L-2-hydroxybutyric acid.
2-Hydroxybutyrate, the conjugate base of 2-hydroxybutyric acid, is produced in mammalian tissues (principally hepatic) that catabolize L-threonine or synthesize glutathione.
Oxidative stress or detoxification demands can dramatically increase the rate of hepatic glutathione synthesis.
Under such metabolic stress conditions, supplies of L-cysteine for glutathione synthesis become limiting, so homocysteine is diverted from the transmethylation pathway forming methionine into the transsulfuration pathway forming cystathionine.
2-Hydroxybutyrate is released as a byproduct when cystathionine is cleaved to cysteine that is incorporated into glutathione.
Chronic shifts in the rate of glutathione synthesis may be reflected by urinary excretion of 2-hydroxybutyrate.
The PLOD2 gene (procollagen-lysine, 2-oxoglutarate 5-dioxygenase 2) is located on chromosome 3q24.
The protein encoded by this gene is a membrane-bound homodimeric enzyme that is localized to the cisternae of the rough endoplasmic reticulum.
The enzyme (cofactors iron and ascorbate) catalyzes the hydroxylation of lysyl residues in collagen-like peptides.
The resultant hydroxylysyl groups are attachment sites for carbohydrates in collagen and thus are critical for the stability of intermolecular crosslinks.
Some patients with Ehlers-Danlos syndrome type VIB have deficiencies in lysyl hydroxylase activity.
Mutations in the coding region of this gene are associated with Bruck syndrome.
Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms.
Cortisol establishes diagnosis of adrenocortical insufficiency, Addison's disease, Cushing's disease and other hypothalmic-pituitary adrenal cortex malfunctions.
Testing interpretation is based on results from morning, afternoon, and evening specimens.
Zopiclone (brand names include Imovane, Zimovane, and many others) is a non-benzodiazepine hypnotic agent used to treat insomnia.
Zopiclone is sedating and marketed as a sleeping pill.
Short term use is recommended as long term or daily use has been reported to cause dependence in some users.
Zopiclone has also been shown to have the potential for abuse and addition.
Zopiclone is not commercially available in the United States but in medical use in many countries.
The most frequently reported adverse effects are bitter or metallic taste, dry mouth, nausea, and dizziness.
Zopiclone toxicology testing can be performed on body fluids, blood, urine and hair.
Zopiclone can be difficult to detect however, because it clears quickly from the body and may be in low dosages.
Hair testing may extend the window of detection and additionally may distinguish long term use from a single exposure.
A group of disorders which have in common elevations of tyrosine in the blood and urine secondary to an enzyme deficiency.
Type I tyrosinemia features episodic weakness, self-mutilation, hepatic necrosis, renal tubular injury, and seizures and is caused by a deficiency of the enzyme fumarylacetoacetase.
Type II tyrosinemia features mental retardation, painful corneal ulcers, and keratoses of the palms and plantar surfaces and is caused by a deficiency of the enzyme TYROSINE TRANSAMINASE.
Type III tyrosinemia features mental retardation and is caused by a deficiency of the enzyme 4-HYDROXYPHENYLPYRUVATE DIOXYGENASE.
(Menkes, Textbook of Child Neurology, 5th ed, pp42-3)
Malt is made most often from Barley, but sometimes from other grains such as Rye.
Malting is the controlled germination of cereals, followed by the termination of this process by the application of heat.
Further heat is then applied to "kiln" the grain and produce the required flavour and color.
Malt may uncommonly induce symptoms of food allergy in sensitised individuals, including Baker's asthma, urticaria, facial itching, Quincke edema, systemic symptoms and anaphylaxis.
Symptoms usually occurred after the consumption of Malt-containing chocolate drinks and Malt-containing snack products.
Aeromonas is a gram-negative, facultative anaerobic rod that morphologically resembles members of the family Enterobacteriaceae.
Fourteen species of Aeromonas have been described, most of which have been associated with human diseases.
The most important pathogens are A. hydrophila, A. caviae, and A. veronii biovar sobria.
The organisms are ubiquitous in fresh and brackish water.
They group with the gamma subclass of the Proteobacteria.
Two major diseases associated with Aeromonas are gastroenteritis and wound infections, with or without bacteremia.
Gastroenteritis typically occurs after the ingestion of contaminated water or food, whereas wound infections result from exposure to contaminated water.
Although some potential virulence factors (e.g. endotoxins, hemolysins, enterotoxins, adherence factors) have been identified, their precise role is unknown.
Aeromonas species cause: 1.opportunistic systemic disease in immunocompromised patients 2.diarrheal disease in otherwise healthy individuals, and 3.wound infections
The CYP1A2 gene (cytochrome P450, family 1, subfamily A, polypeptide 2) is located on chromosome 15q24.1.
This gene encodes a member of the cytochrome P450 superfamily of enzymes.
The cytochrome P450 proteins are monooxygenases which catalyze many reactions involved in drug metabolism and synthesis of cholesterol, steroids and other lipids.
The protein encoded by this gene localizes to the endoplasmic reticulum and its expression is induced by some polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs), some of which are found in cigarette smoke.
The enzyme's endogenous substrate is unknown; however, it is able to metabolize some PAHs to carcinogenic intermediates.
Other xenobiotic substrates for this enzyme include caffeine, aflatoxin B1, and acetaminophen.
The transcript from this gene contains four Alu sequences flanked by direct repeats in the 3' untranslated region.
Homoarginine is a guanidino compounds of guanidinoethanesulfonic acid.
It is an organ-specific uncompetitive inhibitor of human liver and bone alkaline phosphohydrolase.
The NPM1 gene encodes for nucleophosmin (NPM), a ubiquitously expressed nucleolar phoshoprotein which shuttles continuously between the nucleus and cytoplasm.
NMP1 is translocated or mutated in various lymphomas and leukemias, forming fusion proteins (e.g. NPM-ALK, NPM-RARalpha, NPM-MLF1) or NPM mutant products.
NPM1 mutations (e.g. mutA, mutB, mutD) occur in about 30% of adult de novo AML and cause aberrant cytoplasmic expression of NPM.
Various molecular techniques are used for the detection of NPM1 gene alterations.
Findings contribute to diagnosis, prognosis, and monitoring of minimal residual disease of various lymphomas and leukemias.
Chromosomal translocation t(1;19)(q23.3;p13.3) PBX1/TCF3 is caused by a breakpoint in 19p13.3 and occurs in two different forms: 1) a balanced form found in one fourth of cases with a der(1) and a der(19) and 2) an unbalanced form found in 3/4 cases with 2 normal chromosomes 1, a der(19), and 1 normal chromosome 19.
This translocation is mostly found in acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL), L1/L2 type, as well as L3-like ALL, T-lineage ALL (T-ALL), non-Hodgkin lymphomas (NHL), and acute myeloid leukemias (AML).
Naltrexol has two forms: 6-beta naltrexol and 6-alpha naltrexol.
6-Beta naltrexol (6β-Naltrexol) is the major urinary metabolite of Naltrexone in man and has a significant pharmacological activity and a longer elimination half-life than the parent drug.
Naltrexone is an opioid antagonist used primarily in the management of alcohol dependence and opioid dependence.
Relative to naltrexone, 6β-naltrexol has about half the affinity for the μ-opioid receptor, but is present at approximately 10-30-fold higher concentrations at steady state due to extensive first-pass metabolism of the parent drug.
Cache Valley virus (CVV) was isolated in Cache Valley, Utah, in 1956.
CVV is a mosquito borne member of the Bunyamwera serogroup belonging to the family Peribunyaviridae, genus Orthobunyavirus.
The primary vectors are unknown; however CVV has been isolated in multiple mosquito species including Anopheles, Culiseta, Coquillettidia, Aedes, and most commonly Anopheles quadrimaculatus.
CVV is neuroinvasive and rarely diagnosed in North America.
Symptoms produced can be life threatening and include fever, encephalitis, or meningitis .
The FGA gene (fibrinogen alpha chain) is located on chromosome 4q31.3.
This gene encodes the alpha subunit of the coagulation factor fibrinogen, which is a component of the blood clot.
Following vascular injury, the encoded preproprotein is proteolytically processed by thrombin during the conversion of fibrinogen to fibrin.
Mutations in this gene lead to several disorders, including dysfibrinogenemia, hypofibrinogenemia, afibrinogenemia and renal amyloidosis.
Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants, at least one of which encodes an isoform that undergoes proteolytic processing.
Providencia stuartii is a urease-producing gram-negative bacteria in the Enterobacteriaceae family that is often found in water, soil, and animal reservoirs.
It is often the cause of significant opportunistic infections among hospitalized patients and elderly residents in nursing homes associated with long-term indwelling urinary catheter use leading to UTIs.
It is very resistant to antibiotics.
Calcium phosphate is the name given to a family of minerals containing calcium ions (Ca2+) together with orthophosphates (PO4 3-), metaphosphates or pyrophosphates (P2 O7 4-) and occasionally hydrogen or hydroxide ions.
Varieties:Tricalcium phosphate Ca3 (PO4)2 (also called tribasic calcium phosphate; occurs in alpha and beta phases, beta also known as Whitlockite) Dicalcium phosphate CaHPO4 (also called calcium monohydrogen phosphate) Calcium dihydrogen phosphate Ca(H2 PO4)2 (also called monocalcium phosphate)
Calcium pyrophosphate Ca2 P2 O7 (occurs as alpha, beta and gamma phases)
Hydroxyapatite Ca10 (PO4)6 (OH)2 (the form of calcium phosphate in bone)
Uses:Calcium phosphate is an important raw material for the production of phosphoric acid and fertilizers, for example in the Odda process.
Clostridium difficile toxin B is a toxin produced by the bacteria Clostridium difficile.
C. difficile produces two major kinds of toxins that are very potent and lethal; an enterotoxin (Toxin A) and a cytotoxin (Toxin B, this protein).
Early studies suggested that toxin A (also known as TcdA) is the major toxin protein causing antibiotic-associated diarrhea (AAD); however, within the last decade it has been shown that Toxin B (or TcdB) plays a more important role in disease than anyone had forecasted.
Toxin B has been identified as the major virulence factor that causes the opening of tight junctions of intestinal epithelial cells, which enables toxin to increase vascular permeability and induce hemorrhaging.
Lithium, symbol Li and atomic number 3, is one of only four elements thought to have been created in the first few seconds following the "Big Bang" nucleosynthesis.
It is in group 1 of the periodic table, among the alkali metals and is the lightest solid element.
Lithium is a soft, silver white metal that does not exist on earth in its pure form.
Lithium reacts with oxygen to form black lithium oxide (Li2 O).
It therefore has to be stored under the cover of oil to stop its oxidation.
Lithium metal is used primarily in heat-transfer applicationns such as batteries (mainly cell phone and camera batteries), household appliances (toasters and microwaves) and in high performance alloys (aircraft construction).
The NPHP1 gene (nephronophthisis 1 (juvenile)) is located on chromosome 2q13.
This gene encodes a protein with src homology domain 3 (SH3) patterns.
This protein interacts with Crk-associated substrate, and it appears to function in the control of cell division, as well as in cell-cell and cell-matrix adhesion signaling, likely as part of a multifunctional complex localized in actin- and microtubule-based structures.
Mutations in this gene cause familial juvenile nephronophthisis type 1, a kidney disorder involving both tubules and glomeruli.
Defects in this gene are also associated with Senior-Loken syndrome type 1, also referred to as juvenile nephronophthisis with Leber amaurosis, which is characterized by kidney and eye disease, and with Joubert syndrome type 4, which is characterized by cerebellar ataxia, oculomotor apraxia, psychomotor delay and neonatal breathing abnormalities, sometimes including retinal dystrophy and renal disease.
Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
Malic acid is an organic compound with the formula HO2CCH2CHOHCO2H. This dicarboxylic acid is the active ingredient in many sour or tart foods.
Malic acid is found mostly in unripe fruits.
The salts and esters of malic acid are known as malates.
The malate anion is an intermediate in the citric acid cycle.
A pteridine that is used as a mild diuretic.
Chloride is found in many chemicals and other substances in the body.
It is one of the components of salt used in cooking and in some foods.
Chloride is needed to keep the proper balance of body fluids and an essential part of digestive (stomach) juices.
Chloride is found in table salt or sea salt as sodium chloride, and also found in many vegetables.
Foods with higher amounts of chloride include seaweed, rye, tomatoes, lettuce, celery, and olives.
Too little chloride can occur when the body loses a lot of fluids, and may be due to heavy sweating, vomiting, or diarrhea.
Medicines such as diuretics can also cause low chloride levels.
Too much chloride from salted foods can; increase blood pressure, or cause a buildup of fluid in people with congestive heart failure, cirrhosis, or kidney disease.
Zalcitabine, also called dideoxycytidine, is a nucleoside analog reverse transcriptase inhibitor (NARTI) sold under the trade name Hivid.
Zalcitabine was the third antiretroviral to be approved by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for the treatment of HIV infection and AIDS, but sale and distribution has been discontinued since 2006.
The Melaleuca is a tall-growing tree, native to eastern Australia, Myanmar (Burma), New Guinea, the Solomon Islands, and the East Indies.
It is also planted elsewhere in the tropics and is rather common in greenhouses.
The species Melaleuca alternifolia, one type of Tea tree, is unique to Australia and native to New South Wales.
Melaleuca pollen can induce asthma, allergic rhinitis and allergic conjunctitivis
Immunoglobulin E (IgE) is a class of antibody, a glycoprotein, that plays an important role in allergic reactions, especially those associated with type 1 hypersensitivity.
IgE has also been implicated in immune responses to a number of parasitic infections.
Substances which lower blood glucose levels.
Arachidonate (AA) is an essential polyunsaturated omega-6 fatty acid that is produced from dietary linoleic acid.
AA is located in human fat, liver, brain, and glandular organs and is a mediator of inflammation.
The AA within the phospholipids of cell membranes is the surface where the production of a number of biologically active compounds occurs.
A few of the compounds produced includes prostaglandins, thromboxanes, and leukotrienes which regulate processes including platelet aggregation, blood clotting, smooth muscle contraction, leukocyte chemotaxis, inflammatory cytokine production, and immune function.
AA is released from the cell membrane when acted upon by phospholipases and then metabolized by cyclooxygenase (COX) producing the prostanoids prostaglandin and thromboxane A2, which can stimulate or mitigate inflammation.
One of the benefits of the Omega-3 fatty acids for patients with inflammatory disease is believed to be their selective modification of the metabolism of AA by the omega-3 fatty acids that results in a reduced amount of inflammation.
Alloisoleucine+Isoleucine+Leucine+Hydroxyproline is a primary marker for Maple syrup urine disease and Hydroxyprolinemia
The ACSL4 gene (acyl-CoA synthetase long-chain family member 4) is located on chromosome Xq22.3-q23.
The protein encoded by this gene is an isozyme of the long-chain fatty-acid-coenzyme A ligase family.
Although differing in substrate specificity, subcellular localization, and tissue distribution, all isozymes of this family convert free long-chain fatty acids into fatty acyl-CoA esters, and thereby play a key role in lipid biosynthesis and fatty acid degradation.
This isozyme preferentially utilizes arachidonate as substrate.
The absence of this enzyme may contribute to the mental retardation or Alport syndrome.
Alternative splicing of this gene generates 2 transcript variants.
An immunoblastic lymphocyte is a lymphocyte that has been activated by an antigen, which will further undergo clonal expansion to increase the number of lymphocytes capable of binding to that antigen.
Immunoblasts are the most immature members of the protective cells involved in an immune response.
The majority of lymphocytes are small and have a thin rim of cytoplasm, 6-9 µm in diameter, about the same size as erythrocytes (diameter 7.5 µm).
Large lymphocytes (12-18 µm in diameter) are probably activated, i.e. immunoblasts, with a paler and wider rim of cytoplasm and are often mistaken for monocytes.
Direct or indirect contact with bird allergens may cause sensitisation.
Bird allergens may be major components of house dust.
Budgerigar and Parakeet are the common names for a widespread group of small Parrots, native to the Indo-Malayan-Australian region and now the most popular cage birds in the world.
Parakeets have long, pointed tails, unlike the chunky Lovebirds with which they are sometimes confused.
The wild Budgerigar of Australia is usually green or blue with black and yellow markings; as a cage bird, however, it has been bred in many color varieties.
D antigen is part of the Rh blood group system.
Most people have red blood cells that either express the D antigen (D+) or don't (D-), but there are some people that have a phenotype that does not strictly fall into either the D+ or D- category.
There are many types of D variants.
"Weak D" is a D variant in which all epitopes of the D antigen are expressed, but in smaller quantity than usual.
Patients with the weak D variant do not typically have anti-D antibodies.
"DEL" is a variant in which D expression is low enough that it cannot be identified using typical serology.
"Partial D" is a variant in which only some epitopes of the D antigen are expressed.
Patients with the partial D variant may have anti-D antibodies, specifically to those epitopes that are not expressed.
Testing for D variants is especially important in patients who need chronic transfusions and pregnant women.
Tacrine is a cholinesterase inhibitor that crosses the blood-brain barrier.
Tacrine inhibits acetylcholinesterase from breaking down the neurotransmitter acytelcholine.
Tacrine has been used to stimulate respiratory secretions, to counter the effects of muscle relaxants, and to treat Alzheimer's disease and other central nervous system disorders.
3-Hydroxysuberic acid is a metabolite derived from the w-oxidation of 3-hydroxy fatty acids and the subsequent beta-oxidation of longer-chain 3-hydroxy dicarboxylic acids.
It has been found increased in ketoaciduria
VLDL1,2 (Very Low Density Lipoprotein 1,2) plus VLDL3 (Very Low Density Lipoprotein 3).
The sum of fractions, VLDL 1,2 is the large, buoyant fraction and VLDL3 is the small remnant.
Tarragon is a member of the Asteraceae (Compositae) family and is closely related to Common Wormwood (Artemesia absinthium), Wormwood (A. annua), Mugwort (A. vulgaris), and Sagebrush (A. tridentate).
This family contains many weeds of great importance in allergy, e.g., Mugwort.
Tarragon is a perennial herb cultivated for its aromatic leaves, used as a seasoning, in salads, in the preparation of Tarragon vinegar, etc.
Tarragon may uncommonly induce symptoms of allergy in sensitised individuals.
Although reactions may be rare, they may also often be overlooked.
A 30-kDa COMPLEMENT C1Q-related protein, the most abundant gene product secreted by FAT CELLS of the white ADIPOSE TISSUE.
Adiponectin modulates several physiological processes, such as metabolism of GLUCOSE and FATTY ACIDS, and immune responses.
Decreased plasma adiponectin levels are associated with INSULIN RESISTANCE; TYPE 2 DIABETES MELLITUS; OBESITY; and ATHEROSCLEROSIS.
W-18 (4-chloro-N--2-piperidinylidene]-benzenesulfonamide) and W-15 (4-chloro-N--benzenesulfonamide) are emerging drugs of abuse.
Although they have not been shown to have specific opioid receptor activity, they are structurally related to the opioid agonist fentanyl.
W-18 and W-15 are 2 of a series of substances (named W-1 through W-32) that were synthesized in the 1980s as possible analgesics.
W-19 is another similar compound that classified as an emerging drug of abuse.
At the time of this writing the literature is unclear about the potency of these compounds and their dealkylation metabolites, nor-W-18, nor-W-15 and nor-W-19.
Stercobilin is a tetrapyrrolic bile pigment and is one end product of heme catabolism.
It is the chemical responsible for the brown color of human fecal materia.
Stercobilin (and related urobilin) can be used as a marker for biochemical identification of fecal pollution levels in rivers.
In obstructive jaundice, no bilirubin reaches the small intestine, meaning that there is no formation of stercobilinogen.
As a result, no stercobilin is formed.
This lack of stercobilin and other bile pigments causes feces to become clay-colored.
Product of the retinoblastoma tumor suppressor gene.
It is a nuclear phosphoprotein hypothesized to normally act as an inhibitor of cell proliferation.
Rb protein is absent in retinoblastoma cell lines.
It also has been shown to form complexes with the adenovirus E1A protein, the SV40 T antigen, and the human papilloma virus E7 protein.
Mucor plumbeus is a soilborne fungus found worldwide.
It has been isolated from HVAC filters and hospital air.
Lacosamide is an antiepileptic drug used for monotherapy or adjunctive therapy for partial-onset seizures.
It can be taken by mouth, or by injection, in conjunction with other drugs to treat epilepsy.
Lacosamide does not cure epilepsy, it only helps to control seizures.
Found in body fluids of children with severe psychomotor delay and autism.
25-Hydroxyvitamin D is routinely measured by LC-MS/MS; a technology that fractionates 25-hydroxyvitamin D into 25-hydroxyvitamin D2 and 25-hydroxyvitamin D3.
Each of these matabolites can be further fractionated into their 3"-epimers.
It was reported in 2006 that 3-epi-25-Hydroxyvitamin D can be present in clinically significant amounts in very young children.
It was further reported in 2012 that adults also can have significant 3-epi-25-OH Vitamin D in their serum.
Because the physiological activity of the 3' epimer is likely less than that of 25-hydroxyvitaminD3, it some believe it is important to measure it.
Enhanced HPLC-MS/MS separation can be used to fractionate all four 25-hydroxyvitamin D metaboliltes: 25-OH-D2, 25-OH-D3, 3-epi-OH-D2 and 3-epi-OH-D3.
Substances that are recognized by the immune system and induce an immune reaction.
Allo-tetrahydrocorticosterone (allo-THB) is, among other steroids like pregnanetriol (P3), an important marker in the urinary steroid excretion profile for the occurrence of an adrenal 21-hydroxylase-deficiency.
It's concentration also is an indication for the effectiveness of medication (cortisol suppletion) against this disease.
Legionella micdadei is the only species of Legionella that stains acid-fast.
It stains weakly acid fast and loses this trait upon being grown in culture.
It is the agent responsible for "Pittsburgh pneumonia".
Tatlockia micdadei is an alternative term for Legionella micdadei, aka Pittsburgh pneumonia agent and TATLOCK strain.
N-methyl-D-Aspartate receptor (NMDAR) is a type of glutamate receptor found in nerve cells.
It plays a key role in controlling synaptic plasticity and memory function.
Anti-NMDAR IgG antibodies are found in a subset of patients with autoimmune limbic encephalitis, which progresses from symptoms such as psychosis, memory deficits, seizures, and language disintegration into a state of unresponsiveness with catatonic features and breathing instability.
The disorder predominantly affects children and young adults and may occur with or without tumor association.
Decreasing antibody levels may be associated with therapeutic response.
Escherichia coli (EC) is a gram-negative, flagellated, rod-shaped bacterium.
The human gastrointestinal (GI) tract is colonized by EC within hours of birth.
The natural barriers of the GI tract prevent infection by symbiotic EC except when they break down such as in peritonitis.
EC occupy the mucous layer of the mammalian colon and is the most numerous anaerobe of the intestinal microflora.
Some strains of EC have evolved virulence factors that precipitate serious disease including enteric diarrhea, urinary tract infections, sepsis and meningitis.
The intestinal pathogens of EC include six pathotypes defined by the virulence factors they express.
These include: enteropathogenic E. coli (EPEC), enterohaemorrhagic E. coli(EHEC), enterotoxigenic E. coli (ETEC), enteroaggregative E. coli (EAEC), enteroinvasive E. coli (EIEC) and diffusely adherent E. coli (DAEC).
Uropathogenic EC (UPEC) is the most common EC infection that occurs outside the GI tract.
The EC pathotypes that infects extraintestinal locations have been designated ExPEC.
The EC pathotypes that infect animals and cause disease include EPEC, EHEC and ETEC.
1,4-Benzoquinone, commonly known as para-quinone, is a chemical compound with the formula C6H4O2.
In pure state, it forms bright yellow crystals with characteristic irritating odor, resembling that of chlorine; impure samples are often dark colored due to the presence of quinhydrone (1:1 complex of quinone with hydroquinone).
This six-membered ring compound is the oxidized derivative of 1,4-hydroquinone.
The molecule is multifunctional: it exhibits properties of a ketone, forming an oxime; an oxidant, forming the dihydroxy derivative; and an alkene, undergoing addition reactions, especially those typical for α,β-unsaturated ketones.
1,4-Benzoquinone is sensitive towards both strong mineral acids and alkali, which cause condensation and decomposition of the compound.
1,4-Benzoquinone is a toxic metabolite found in human blood and can be used to track exposure to benzene or mixtures containing benzene and benzene compounds, such as petrol.
The compound can interfere with cellular respiration, and kidney damage has been found in animals receiving severe exposure.
It is excreted in its original form and also as variations of its own metabolite, hydroquinone.
Benzoquinone compounds are a metabolite of paracetamol.
Morphine is an extremely powerful opiate analgesic drug and is the principal active agent in opium.
Like other opioids such as heroin, morphine acts directly on the central nervous system (CNS) to relieve pain, in particular by targeting the synapses of the arcuate nucleus.
Side effects include impairment of mental performance, euphoria, drowsiness, lethargy, and blurred vision.
It also decreases hunger, inhibits the cough reflex, and produces constipation.
Morphine is highly addictive when compared to other substances, and tolerance and physical and psychological dependence develop quickly.
Patients on morphine often report insomnia, visual hallucinations and nightmares.
Potentially pathogenic bacteria found in nasal membranes, skin, hair follicles, and perineum of warm-blooded animals.
They may cause a wide range of infections and intoxications.
Sickle-cell anemia is an autosomal recessive genetic blood disorder characterized by the presence of rigid and sickle-shaped red blood cells.
The sickling occurs because of a mutation in the hemoglubin gene.
In the US, the prevalence of the disease is about 1 in 5000, mostly affecting Americans of Sub-Sahara African descent.
One third of all inhabitants of Sub-Sahara Africa carry the gene because in areas where malaria is common there is a survival advantage in carrying only one single sickle-cell gene (sickle-cell trait).
An amino alcohol with a long unsaturated hydrocarbon chain.
Sphingosine and its derivative sphinganine are the major bases of the sphingolipids in mammals.
Total plasma volume determined using Iodine-125 labelled human serum albumin
Lactose is a disaccharide that consists of -D-galactose and -D-glucose molecules bonded through a 1-4 glycosidic linkage.
Lactose makes up around 2-8% of the solids in milk.
The name comes from the Latin word for milk, plus the -ose ending used to name sugars.
Its empirical formula is C12 H22 O11 and its molecular weight is 342.3 gmol.
Digestion of lactose:Infant mammals are fed on milk by their mothers.
To digest it an enzyme called lactase (1-4 disaccharidase) is secreted by the intestinal villi, and this enzyme cleaves the molecule into its two subunits for absorption.
Since lactose occurs mostly in milk, in most species the production of lactase gradually ceases with maturity, and they are then unable to metabolise lactose.
This loss of lactase on maturation is also the default pattern in most adult humans.
Free Trichloroethanol is a major metabolite of chloral hydrate that is used to determine occupational exposure.
Cladosporium is one of the most common colonizers of dying and dead plants and also occurs in various soil types, and on food.
This mold is frequently found in uncleaned refrigerators, foodstuffs, on moist window frames, in houses with poor ventilation, with straw roofs, and situated in low, damp areas.
It has been isolated from fuel tanks, face creams, paints and textiles.
In the allergic population, sensitisation to moulds may vary from 5 to 30%.
The wide range of allergenic proteins in C. herbarum may result in sensitisation and subsequent expression of a range of immune-related diseases.
Cladosporium sensitisation is particularly associated with severe or life-threatening asthma.
Upper respiratory symptoms occur with exposure to Cladosporium, but asthma symptoms are more prevalent.
Cladosporium may also result in allergic bronchopulmonary cladosporiosis.
Arachidic acid, also called eicosanoic acid, is a saturated fatty acid found as a minor constituent of peanut oil and corn oil.
Its name derives from the Latin arachis - peanut.
It can be formed by the hydrogenation of arachidonic acid.
Reduction of arachidic acid yields arachidyl alcohol.
Aldolase glycolytic enzyme that splits fructose 1,6-diphosphate.
It is present most significantly in skeletal and heart muscle, although all cells contains samll amount, and the liver has a moderate concentration.
Damage to skeletal muscle produces high levels of aldolase; this is particularly so in the case of progressive muscular dystrophy in which levels may be 10-15 times normal.
There is no aldolase elevation in muscle diseases of neural origin such as neurogenic muscular atrophy, poliomyelitis, myasthenia gravis and multiple sclerosis, but any of the inflammatory conditions involving muscle may cause moderately elevated values.
Used for the differential diagnosis of Duchenne's muscular dystrophy and in carriers lesser degrees of elevation in dermatomyositis, polynyositis, and limb-girdle dystrophy.
In recent years, CK is used more often for diagnosis of muscular dystrophy.
Phencyclidine (PCP) is a widely used hallucinogen that exhibits stimulating, depressing, and analgesic properties.
PCP, also known as "angel dust", causes psychosis and may result in violent behavior.
PCP may be a powder, tablet, liquid, spray or capsule, and it may be swallowed, smoked, sniffed, or injected.
Effects include increased heart rate and blood pressure, flushing, sweating, dizziness, numbness, drowsiness, convulsions, and coma.
PCP can be found 7 days following use and up to 2-4 weeks later in chronic users.
Information from Jacobs and DeMott Laboratory Test Handbook, 5th edition, DS Jacobs, WR DeMott and DK Oxley, 2001.
A broad-spectrum 6-fluoronaphthyridinone antibacterial agent (FLUOROQUINOLONES) structurally related to NALIDIXIC ACID.
Bone ash typically consists of calcium, phosphorus, and a small amount of water (~2%).
Bone ash is measured to determine the effects of various feeds on the growth of livestock animals and detect osteopenic disease.
There are different methods used and variations in procedure when estimating bone ash.
Bones may be autoclaved or boiled/extracted and cleaned, dried, and ashed differently.
Arsenic compounds can be categorized into three groups: inorganic, organic, and arsine gas.
Inorganic arsenic compounds are thought to be more toxic compared to organic arsenic compounds, while arsine gas is the most toxic.
Environmental exposure occurs mainly through food, water, soil, and air.
Arsenite, or AS(III), is a trivalent form of arsenic, and arsenate, or AS(V), is a pentavalent form; both are water-soluble.
Monomethylarsonate (MMA) and dimethylarsinate (DMA) are organic arsenic compounds that are formed via metabolism of arsenite and arsenate species; both MMA and DMA are widely used in agriculture.
Arsenobetaine and arsenocholine are both organic forms of arsenic that are found in seafood.
Aspergillus niger is a genus of mitosporic fungi containing about 100 species and eleven different teleomorphs in the family Trichocomaceae.
It is one of the most common species among the genus Aspergillus.
It causes black mold on certain types of fruit and vegetables, and is a common food contaminant.
Chronic myelogenous leukemia (CML), acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL), and acute myeloid leukemia (AML) are associated with the fusion of the breakpoint cluster gene (BCR) at chromosome 22q11 to the Abelson gene (ABL1) at chromosome 9q23.
The t(9;22)(BCR-ABL1) gene translocation leads to the cytogenetic finding known as the Philadelphia chromsome (Ph').
Various breakpoints within the BCR and ABL1 genes have been described.
Most cases of CML are due to a fusion of BCR exon 13 (e13 or b2) or BCR exon 14 (e14 or b3) to the ABL exon 2 (a2).
The b2a2 (e13a2) and b3a2 (e14a2) fused transcripts, also known as major break points, produce a 210-kDa protein (p210).
The fused transcript resulting in a 190-kDa protein (e1a2 or less common e1a3), also known as minor break points, is found in approximately 75% of childhood ALL patients and 50% of adult ALL patients.
Other rarely reported fused transcripts include e6a2, e19a2 (p230), e13a3, and e14a3.
Coagulation factor XIII strongly affects fibrin clot structure and function.
FXIII is converted by thrombin into activated FXIII (FXIIIa).
Factor XIIIa inhibits fibrinolysis by forming fibrin-fibrin and fibrin-inhibitor cross-links Studies have reported various magnitude and mechanisms of inhibition.
However, Factor XIIIa most strongly inhibits lysis of mechanically compacted or retracted plasma clots .
During myocardial contraction, as the wall shortens, it also thickens and warrants assessment of all parameters as useful for evaluation of contractile function: positive strain (radial thickening), negative strain (circumferential shortening and longitudinal shortening).
Radial mechanics of the heart are reflected by the myocardial shortening and thickening.
Parasternal short-axis and apical views from Doppler-determined strain measurements are used for recording radial strains.
Radial strain has been found to be altered after longitudinal and circumferential mechanics during the ischemic cascade, occurring only in the presence of flow-limiting stenosis during dobutamine.
Radial strains may be significantly decreased after infarction and lowest in the infarcted segments.
Radial strains, alone, are not strong predictors of infarct size.
Values for radial strain are positive.
There is a need to differentiate between Cultivated Rye grass pollen (Secale cereale) g12, Rye the foodstuff (Secale cereale) f5, Rye grass (Lolium perenne) g5, and Wild Rye grass (Elymus tricoides) g70.
Cultivated Rye grass pollen can induce asthma, allergic rhinitis and allergic conjunctivitis.
Wild forms occur as weeds in many parts of central Asia and Europe.
Eaten as a staple vegetable in Germany from as far back as the 16th century.
They are biennial plants grown for their large tapering roots, which are cream or white colored.
They have a distinct flavour due to their high sugar content.
Often used in stews, soups; roasted, fried, boiled or mashed.
In 1973 a new antigen was reported that occurred in 5% of Indians from Bombay.
Two years later, Dr. Giles reported the Salis serum which contained an antibody to a high frequency antigen that was antithetical to Ina, thus, it was named Inb.
A higher frequency of Ina has been found in some Arabs (10-12%).
Both of the Indian antigens can be suppressed by the In(Lu) gene (LU).
In addition, the null phenotype, ie. "In(a-b-)", has been reported in a patient diagnosed with congenital dyserythropoietic anemia.
In this case there appears to be a silent allele present (no protein is produced) but the exact molecular basis for this is unknown at this time.
A metallic element that has the atomic symbol Bi, atomic number 83 and atomic weight 208.98.
Angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) is an enzyme that assists in regulating blood pressure.
ACE helps convert angiotensin I (inactive) to angiotensin II (active).
Angiotensin II acts as a vasopressor and causes arteries to contract, increasing blood pressure.
Medications called ACE inhibitors block the conversion of angiotensin I to angiotensin II in order to decrease blood pressure.
The levels of ACE in the blood are also used in order to diagnose sarcoidosis.
High levels of ACE in the blood could indicate early sarcoidosis and low levels of ACE in the blood could indicate chronic obstructive pulminary disease (COPD) or hypothyroidism.
Hemoglobin with a sulfur atom on one of its porphyrin rings
A genus of the family CORONAVIRIDAE characterized by enveloped, peplomer-bearing particles containing an elongated tubular nucleocapsid with helical symmetry.
Toroviruses have been found in association with enteric infections in horses (Berne virus), cattle (Breda virus), swine, and humans.
Transmission probably takes place via the fecal-oral route.
Tick-borne encephalitis virus (TBEV) is a single-stranded RNA virus that causes an infectious disease of the central nervous system.
TBEV has 3 subtypes: European (milder disease), Siberian (more severe), and Far Eastern (more chronic).
The disease most often manifests as meningitis, encephalitis, or meningoencephalitis.
Although TBE is most commonly recognized as a neurological disorder, mild fever can also occur.
Long-lasting or permanent neuropsychiatric symptoms are observed in 10-20% of infected patients.
Diagnosis of TBE is usually determined by the presence of TBEV-specific IgM and IgG antibodies in serum or cerebral spinal fluid by enzyme-linked immuno-sorbent assay (ELISA).
Hydrogen breath test using glucose or lactulose is performed to diagnose Small Bowel Bacterial Overgrowth Syndrome (SBBOS) or Small Intestinal Bacterial Overgrowth (SIBO).
The patient is either given a challenge dose of glucose, also known as dextrose (75-100 grams), or lactulose (10 grams).
A baseline breath sample is collected, and then additional samples are collected at 15 minute or 20 minute intervals for 3-5 hours.
A lactulose breath test is typically positive if the patient produces approximately 20 ppm of hydrogen and/or methane within the first two hours (indicates bacteria in the small intestine), followed by a much larger peak (colonic response).
This is also known as a biphasic pattern.
Lactulose is not absorbed by the digestive system and can help determine distal end bacterial overgrowth, which means the bacteria are lower in the small intestine.
Glucose is absorbed by the digestive system so studies have shown it to be harder to diagnose distal end bacterial overgrowth since the glucose typically doesn't reach the colon before being absorbed.
An increase of approximately 12 ppm or more in hydrogen and/or methane during the breath test could conclude bacterial overgrowth.
Multivitamin and minerals (MVMs) are popular dietary supplements and, according to estimates, more than one-third of all Americans take these supplements.
MVMs account for almost one-sixth of all purchases of dietary supplements and 40% of all sales of vitamin and mineral supplements.
No standard or regulatory definition is available for an MVM supplement-such as what nutrients it must contain and at what levels.
Therefore, the term can refer to products of widely varied compositions and characteristics.
Bretylium (also bretylium tosylate) is an antiarrhythmic agent.
It blocks the release of noradrenaline from nerve terminals.
In effect, it decreases output from the peripheral sympathetic nervous system.
The dose is 5-10 mg/kg and side effects are hypertension followed by hypotension and ventricular ectopy.
N-acetyl-lysine is an acetylated amino acid.
Post-translational lysine-acetylation is one of two major modifications of lysine residues in various proteins.
Acetylation of specific lysine residues in the N-terminal domains of core histones is a biochemical marker of active genes.
Acetylation is now known to play a major role in eukaryotic transcription.
Specifically, acetyltransferase enzymes that act on particular lysine side chains of histones and other proteins are intimately involved in transcriptional activation.
By modifying chromatin proteins and transcription-related factors, these acetylases are believed to regulate the transcription of many genes.
The best-characterized mechanism is acetylation, catalyzed by histone acetyltransferase (HAT) enzymes.
HATs function enzymatically by transferring an acetyl group from acetyl-coenzyme A (acetyl-CoA) to the -amino group of certain lysine side chains within a histone's basic N-terminal tail region.
Within a histone octamer, these regions extend out from the associated globular domains, and in the context of a nucleosome, they are believed to bind the DNA through charge interactions (positively charged histone tails associated with negatively charged DNA) or mediate interactions between nucleosomes.
Lysine acetylation, which neutralizes part of a tail region's positive charge, is postulated to weaken histone-DNA or nucleosome-nucleosome interactions and/or signal a conformational change, thereby destabilizing nucleosome structure or arrangement and giving other nuclear factors, such as the transcription complex, more access to a genetic locus.
In agreement with this is the fact that acetylated chromatin has long been associated with states of transcriptional activation.
Specific recognition of N-acetyl-lysine is a conserved function of all bromodomains found in different proteins, recognized as an emerging intracellular signaling mechanism that plays critical roles in regulating gene transcription, cell-cycle progression, apoptosis, DNA repair, and cytoskeletal organization.
The teratozoospermia index (TZI) is a measure in the number of abnormalities per ABNORMAL spermatozoon.
For the calculation of TZI, a maximum of four defects per abnormal spermatozoon is counted, one for each of the following areas: head, midpiece, principal piece and excess residual cytoplasm.
The morphological criteria enumerated in the WHO manual can be used (WHO laboratory manual for the Examination and processing of human semen).
Laboratory cell counters or a score sheet can be used.
Hexanoylcarnitine is a secondary marker for Medium-chain acyl-CoA dehydrogenase deficiency, and Glutaric acidemia type II.
Said to have been cultivated in 16th-century Belgium, Brussels Sprouts are a member of the Cabbage (Brassicaceae) family and, indeed, resemble tiny Cabbage heads.
Important growing areas are Western and Middle Europe, Japan, and North America.
Anecdotal evidence suggests that Brussels sprouts can occasionally induce symptoms of food allergy in sensitised individuals; however, no studies have been reported to date.
Clara cell protein 16 (CC16, sometimes referred to as CC10, clara cell secretory protein or uteroglobin) is an anti-inflammatory protein belonging to the secretoglobin family.
It is secreted from clara cells, non-ciliated cells found in the small airways (bronchioles) of the lungs.
CC16 is a biomarker for several conditions, including asthma, lung injuries, exposure to asbestos, fetal pulmonary hypoplasia, and cardiac pleural congestion.
In serum, an increase is associated with sarcoidosis and exposure to asbestos, for example.
Decreased levels are associated with asthma, pulmonary edema and acute lung injuries.
Mucoepidermoid carcinomas (MEC) represent 5% of all salivary gland tumors and 20% of salivary malignancies.
A portion of these carcinomas are associated with gene rearrangements involving the the C-terminal of mastermind-like gene 2 (MAML2) and either cAMP response element-binding protein (CREB)-regulated transcription coactivator 1 (CRTC1) or 3 (CRTC3).
CTCR1-MAML2 fusion has been detected in 40-80% of primary salivary gland mucoepidermoid carcinomas.
MECs positive for MAML2 fusions (CRTC1-MAML2 or CRTC3-MAML2) are associated with favorable clinicopathological tumor features, including lower patient age, a mild female predilection, a smaller tumor size, less frequent nodal metastasis, a lower clinical stage, a lower histological grade, and longer overall and disease-free survival.
Mediator of RNA polymerase II transcription, subunit 12 homolog (S. cerevisiae), also known as MED12, is a human gene found on the X chromosome.
Mutations in MED12 are responsible for at least two different forms of X-linked dominant mental retardation, Lujan-Fryns syndrome and FG syndrome.
The E wave represents the flow of blood through the mitral or tricuspid valve into the ventricle (ventricular filling) during early diastole, before atrial contraction (LOINC component: blood flow velocity.
One of several basic proteins released from EOSINOPHIL cytoplasmic granules.
Eosinophil major basic protein is a 14-kDa cytotoxic peptide with a pI of 10.9.
In addition to its direct cytotoxic effects, it stimulates the release of variety of INFLAMMATION MEDIATORS.
A mixture of polymyxins B1 and B2, obtained from Bacillus polymyxa strains.
They are basic polypeptides of about eight amino acids and have cationic detergent action on cell membranes.
Polymyxin B is used for infections with gram-negative organisms, but may be neurotoxic and nephrotoxic.
The ARSA gene is located on chromosome 22q13.33 and encodes the lysosomal enzyme arylsulfatase A, which hydrolyzes cerebroside sulfate to cerebroside and sulfate.
ARSA mutations cause metachromatic leukodystrophy (MLD), a progressive demyelinating disease that in its late infantile form is associated with neurodegeneration, motor rigidity, seizures, and death by age 5.
The juvenile and adult forms of MLD typically have a more variable and less severe course.
During inspiration and expiration, airway pressure changes, falling during inspiration and rising during expiration.
When a patient has a tracheal tube, these pressure changes can be measured.
Causes of high airway pressure include asynchronous breathing, pneumothorax, bronchial obstruction or hyperinflation and bronchospasm.
Onion in the general sense can be used for any plant in the genus Allium but used without qualifiers usually means Allium cepa, also called the garden onion.
Onions (usually but not exclusively the bulbs) are edible with a distinctive strong flavour and pungent odour which is mellowed and sweetened by cooking.
They generally have a papery outer skin over a fleshy, layered inner core.
Used worldwide for culinary purposes, they come in a wide variety of forms and colors.
Onions may be grown from seed or very commonly from sets.
Onion sets are produced by sowing seed very thickly one year, resulting in stunted plants which produce very small bulbs.
These bulbs are very easy to set out and grow into mature bulbs the following year, but they have the reputation of producing a less durable bulb than onions grown directly from seed and thinned.
The organ or other body structure invaded by a tumor.
For example, breast tumors can invade the chest wall, skeletal muscle and skin, and colon cancer can invade many organs or structures, including the pancreas, urinary bladder, ovary, uterus, and coccyx.
A species of dust mite
Gliadins are naturally occurring water and salt insoluble proteins of wheat.
They are made up of several components, including alpha/beta (nTri a 21), gamma (nTri a 20), and omega (nTri a 19) based on their electrophoretic mobility at a low pH.
The omega gliadin is further subdivided into two groups known as fast and slow omega gliadins.
The water and salt insoluble gliadin proteins are associated with wheat-dependent, exercise-induced anaphylaxis (WDEIA).
WDEIA is a severe allergic reaction that is characterized by symptoms that range from urticaria to respiratory, gastrointestinal, or cardiovascular distress that is brought on by exercise 1 to 4 hours after the ingestion of wheat.
Factors other than exercise that can induce the severe reaction to wheat ingestion include: ingesting aspirin or alcohol, infections, stress, female sex hormones or menstruation.
The presence of gliadin IgE antibodies in patient serum is useful in diagnosing WDEIA.
The gamma and omega gliadin allergens may also be important to identifying severe allergy to ingested wheat.
Streptomycin is an antibiotic drug, the first of a class of drugs called aminoglycosides to be discovered, and was the first antibiotic remedy for tuberculosis.
It is derived from the actinobacterium Streptomyces griseus.
Streptomycin stops bacterial growth by damaging cell membranes and inhibiting protein synthesis.
Specifically, it binds to the 23S rRNA molecule of the bacterial ribosome, which prevents the release of the growing protein (polypeptide chain).
Humans have structurally different ribosomes than bacteria, thereby allowing the selectivity of this antibiotic for bacteria.
Streptomycin cannot be given orally, but must be administered by regular intramuscular injection.
An adverse effect of this medicine is ototoxicity.
It can result in permanent hearing loss.
History:It was first isolated on October 19, 1943 in the laboratory of Selman Abraham Waksman at Rutgers University by Albert Schatz, a graduate student in his laboratory.
Di^b is found universally in most populations.
Anti-Di^b is capable of capable of causing a moderate to severe delayed transfusion reaction.
Beck L, Blood groups and red cell antigens. .
Carbaryl is a colorless to gray crystal carbamate insecticide that is effective against more than one hundred species of insects.
It is used on citrus fruit, cotton, forests, lawns, nuts, ornamental plants, shade trees, crops, poultry, livestock and pets.
Carbaryl ranges from moderately to extremely toxic and must carry the signal word WARNING on its label.
It is toxic to humans when in contact with or absorbed by the skin, inhaled, or ingested.
If excessive amounts of carbaryl are inhaled or ingested, toxicity to the nervous system and respiratory system can occur causing symptoms of nausea, stomach cramps, diarrhea, excessive salivation, sweating, blurring of vision, loss of coordination, and convulsions.
Carbaryl is toxic to aquatic organisms and some wild bird species.
It can bioaccumulate in catfish, crawfish, snails, algae, and duckweed.
An indicator that one or more biobanked specimens are stored and available for research use.
A biobank is a repository that stores biological samples used for research.
Examples of biospecimens could include plasma, urine, or tissue.
If no known biobanked specimens are available, this field should be marked "No".
The genera Anser and Branta should both be considered.
Anser includes many wild Geese with well-known domestic relatives.
This group includes Anser anser (European) and species of Africa and Asia.
Branta includes wild Geese like the Canada Goose (Branta Canadensis) and the Brants (most notably Branta bernicla).
Asthma, allergic rhinitis and allergic conjunctivitis may result following exposure to Duck feathers, epithelial cells or droppings.
The allergic manifestations may present as Extrinsic Allergic Alveolitis.
A darkly stained mat-like EXTRACELLULAR MATRIX (ECM) that separates cell layers, such as EPITHELIUM from ENDOTHELIUM or a layer of CONNECTIVE TISSUE.
The ECM layer that supports an overlying EPITHELIUM or ENDOTHELIUM is called basal lamina.
Basement membrane (BM) can be formed by the fusion of either two adjacent basal laminae or a basal lamina with an adjacent reticular lamina of connective tissue.
BM, composed mainly of TYPE IV COLLAGEN; glycoprotein LAMININ; and PROTEOGLYCAN, provides barriers as well as channels between interacting cell layers.
Pentachloronitrobenzene, typically abbreviated PCNB, is a registered fungicide formally derived from nitrobenzene.
It is either an off-white or yellow solid, depending on its purity, with a musty odor.
The AGA gene (aspartylglucosaminidase) is located on chromosome 4q34.3.
Aspartylglucosaminidase is involved in the catabolism of N-linked oligosaccharides of glycoproteins.
It cleaves asparagine from N-acetylglucosamines as one of the final steps in the lysosomal breakdown of glycoproteins.
The lysosomal storage disease aspartylglycosaminuria is caused by a deficiency in the AGA enzyme.
Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been identified.
Estriol (also oestriol) is one of the three main estrogens produced in humans.
It is only produced in large amounts during pregnancy as it is made by the placenta.
Levels of estriol in non-pregnant women do not change much after menopause, and levels are not significantly different from those in men.
Estriol levels can be a good indicator of the health of the fetus.
DHEA is produced by the adrenal cortex of the fetus, this is converted to estriol by the placenta.
Low levels during pregnancy may indicate a problem with the development in the child.
As a first step of the patient nutrition care process, five categories are evaluated: 1) food and nutrition related history, 2) anthropometric measures, 3) biochemical data, 4) medical tests and procedures, and 5) client history.
This information is compared to criteria, relevant norms and standards for interpretation and decision making.
This then is the base for the nutrition diagnosis statements.
Hepatitis B virus, genus orthohepadnavirus, causes human hepatitis B and may also cause human hepatocellular carcinoma.
The Dane particle is an intact hepatitis virion.
Non-infectious spherical and tubular particles are also seen in the serum.
Aminocaproic acid (also known as Amicar, ε-amino caproic acid, ε-Ahx, or 6-aminohexanoic acid) is a derivative and analogue of the amino acid lysine, which makes it an effective inhibitor for enzymes that bind that particular residue.
Such enzymes include proteolytic enzymes like plasmin, the enzyme responsible for fibrinolysis.
For this reason it is effective in treatment of certain bleeding disorders - especially fibrogenemia.
Species or Strains in this group are coccoid or pleomorphic cells that reside in cytoplasmic vacuoles within monocytes and macrophages of dogs, horses, bats, and human.
Neorickettsia sennetsu causes Sennetsu ehrlichiosis.
Unlike most other closely related diseases, Neorickettsia sennetsu is transmitted by Trematodes from fish.
Etravirine (ETR) is a drug used for the treatment of HIV.
Etravirine is a non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitor (NNRTI).
House Rats comprise two species, Rattus norvegicus, the Brown or Norway Rat, and Rattus Rattus, the Black or Alexandrine Rat.
Direct or indirect contact with animal allergens frequently causes sensitisation.
Rat allergens found in dust, urine, epithelium and saliva are a frequent cause of asthma, allergic rhinitis and allergic conjunctivitis, mainly in laboratory workers but also in ordinary individuals.
Mesoporphyrin is produced by gastrointestinal bacteria and contributes to total fecal porphyrin levels.
Dopamine, a chemical naturally produced in the body, functions in the brain as a neurotransmitter, activating dopamine receptors.
It is also a neurohormone released by the hypothalamus.
As a hormone, it inhibits the release of prolactin from the anterior lobe of the pituitary.
Dopamine can also be supplied as a medication to target the sympathetic nervous system, leading to increased heart rate and blood pressure.
Because dopamine cannot cross the blood-brain barrier, however, when given as a drug it does not directly affect the central nervous system.
To increase the amount of dopamine in the brains of patients with diseases such as Parkinson's disease and Dopa-Responsive Dystonia, a synthetic precursor to dopamine such as L-DOPA can be given, since this will cross the blood-brain barrier.
Parovovirus causes Fifth disease - highly contagious pediatric disease that is minimally symptomatic.
The main reason for testing is in pregnant women because of concern that it may cause fetal loss.
In immunocompetent patients antibody testing is sufficient.
UpToDate indicates that IgG and IGM are usually both tested.
IGH-MAF is found in approximately 5% of multiple myeloma (MM) cases.
Such cases are associated with shorter survival.
Molecular and cytogenetic techniques such as real-time PCR and FISH are performed to detect the fused transcripts.
Systemic candidiasis is an invasive yeast infection caused primarily by C. albicans, although other Candida species can also be the cause.
It leads to septicemia, endocarditis, meningitis, and rarely as osteomyelitis.
Superficial candidiasis is common, but generally only immunocompromised patients have systemic candidiasis.
Because Candida species are common contaminants, diagnosis is difficult and requires the elimination of other possible causes.
The testing of corticotropin, a pituitary function, is useful in the diagnosis of Cushings syndrome, Addison's disease, ectopic ACTH syndrome and adrenal carcinoma.
Decenoylcarnitine is a primary marker for Medium-chain acyl-CoA dehydrogenase deficiency and Glutaric acidemia type II.
Secondary marker for Medium-chain ketoacyl-CoA thiolase deficiency.
The Kiwi fruit (or Kiwi) is the edible berry of a cultivar group of the woody vine A. deliciosa and hybrids between this and other species in the genus Actinidia.
There are 2 common species of Kiwi commercially available: A. chinensis - Gold kiwi and A. deliciosa - Green kiwi.
The most common symptoms attributed to Kiwi allergy are those associated with oral allergy syndrome, which include pruritis of the eyes, ears, tongue, pharynx and mouth, and swelling of the lips, tongue and pharynx.
Clam is closely related to quahogs and cockles.
The Manilla clam, also referred to as littleneck clam or carpet shell, is a hard shell clam cultivated on a very large scale in, for example, Japan, and then frozen whole and exported widely.
It is commonly used around the world, for instance, in clam sauce for pasta or just steamed.
This clam is closely related to quahogs and cockles and cross-reactivity to other bivalves cannot be excluded.
Occupational asthma and food allergy caused by clam have been reported.
A potent, non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitor with activity specific for HIV-1.
The HTT gene (huntingtin) is located on chromosome 4p16.3.
Huntingtin is a disease gene linked to Huntington's disease, a neurodegenerative disorder characterized by loss of striatal neurons.
This is thought to be caused by an expanded, unstable trinucleotide repeat in the huntingtin gene, which translates as a polyglutamine repeat in the protein product.
A fairly broad range in the number of trinucleotide repeats has been identified in normal controls, and repeat numbers in excess of 40 have been described as pathological.
The huntingtin locus is large, spanning 180 kb and consisting of 67 exons.
The huntingtin gene is widely expressed and is required for normal development.
It is expressed as 2 alternatively polyadenylated forms displaying different relative abundance in various fetal and adult tissues.
The larger transcript is approximately 13.7 kb and is expressed predominantly in adult and fetal brain whereas the smaller transcript of approximately 10.3 kb is more widely expressed.
The genetic defect leading to Huntington's disease may not necessarily eliminate transcription, but may confer a new property on the mRNA or alter the function of the protein.
One candidate is the huntingtin-associated protein-1, highly expressed in brain, which has increased affinity for huntingtin protein with expanded polyglutamine repeats.
This gene contains an upstream open reading frame in the 5' UTR that inhibits expression of the huntingtin gene product through translational repression.
A mitosporic fungal genus and an anamorphic form of Arthroderma.
Various species attack the skin, nails, and hair.
Granulomatous prostatitis is a rare, usually non-specific granulomatous process that presents as a hard nodule.
It often exhibits elevated PSA and biopsy is needed to distinguish it from cancer .
Chromate is an adulterant product added to urine to disguise drug abuse
Pheniramine (trade name Avil, among others) is an antihistamine with anticholinergic properties used to treat allergic conditions such as hay fever or urticaria.
It has relatively strong sedative effects, and may sometimes be used off-label as an over-the-counter sleeping pill in a similar manner to other sedating antihistamines such as diphenhydramine.
Pheniramine is also commonly found in eyedrops used for the treatment of allergic conjunctivitis.
Pheniramine is generally sold in combination with other medications, rather than as a stand-alone drug, although some formulations are available containing pheniramine by itself.
The ninth most abundant element in the earth's crust, is widely distributed and mainly used in the aircraft and chemical industries for its corrosion-resistant properties.
Main sources of environmental contamination are combustion of fossil fuels and the incineration of titanium-containing wastes.
Absorption from the gastrointestinal tract takes place, but the extent is unknown.
Usually the highest titanium concentrations are in the lungs, followed by the kidney and liver.
There is no evidence that titanium is an essential element for man or animals.
Animal and human studies have shown that titanium in implants and prostheses is extremely well tolerated by osseous and soft tissues.
Titanium compounds have been used in various dermatological formulations, without any known adverse effects; however, exposure appears to induce various levels of slight pulmonary fibrosis.
Titanium dioxide is also often used in lung clearance studies where a biologically inert substance is needed.
Inhalant allergen mix 8 (ix8, IP8) detects Dermatophagoides pteronyssinus (D1), Cat dander (E1), Dog dander (E5), Timothy grass (G6), Rye grass (G12), Cladosporium herbarum (M2), Birch (T3), and Mugwort (W6) IgE antibodies.
Testing for IgE antibodies may be used to help diagnose an allergic disease or the cause of an anaphylactic episode in a patient.
Enzyme and fluorescent-based assays, which were preceded by the RAST test (Radio-AllergoSorbent Test), are performed to detect allergen-specific IgE in the patient's serum.
Islet cell antigen (ICA) 512 is a receptor-tyrosine phosphatase-like protein associated with the secretory granules of neuroendocrine cells.
ICA-512 is also known as protein tyrosine phosphatase-IA2 (PTP-IA2) or tyrosine phosphatase (IA2).
It is an autoantigen of type 1 diabetes.
This is NOT the same as pancreatic islet cell.
Studies on type-1 diabetic patient's relatives found that the development of one or more islet autoantibodies (including IA-2 antibody) was an early indicator of the relatives' progression to type-1 diabetes.
Autoantibody profiles identifying patients destined to develop type-1 diabetes are usually detectable before age three.
One study found that for relatives seropositive for IA-2 antibody, the likelihood of developing type-1 diabetes mellitus within five-years was 65.3%.
Some type-1 diabetic patients are originally diagnosed as having type-2 diabetes due to symptom onset in adulthood, societal obesity, and initial insulin-independence.
Detection of one or more islet auto-antibodies (including IA-2) may be used to distinguish these patients with "latent autoimmune diabetes" from type-2 diabetics.
The first example of anti-Doa, reactive with 64% of the Caucasian population, was reported by Swanson et al. in 1965.
It was not until 1972 that Molthan et al. reported the antithetical antibody anti-Dob.
Thus, the Dombrock blood group system was defined and was estimated to be the fifth most useful blood group marker in Caucasians.
However, limited examples of both antibodies greatly restricted broad investigations.
The Dombrock system remained a simple two allele system until 1992, when Banks et al. reported that the red cells of the rare Gy(a-) Hy(a-) Jo(a-) individuals were also Do(a-b-).
Consequently, these three high incidences blood factors were included within the system.
Interestingly, it had already been known that all Gy(a-) red cells lacked both Hya and Joa antigens and that Hy(a-) red cells lacked Joa antigens.
Ironically, Swanson reported the first examples of both anti-Doa (in 1965) and anti-Gya (1967) but as anti-Dob was, at that time, yet to be discovered any association with Doa and Gya could not be deduced.
An adrenergic agonist that acts predominantly at alpha adrenergic receptors and also stimulates the release of norepinephrine.
It has been used primarily as a vasoconstrictor in the treatment of hypotension.
Tumor budding is the presence of single cells or clusters of less than five cells scattered in the stroma at the margin of an invasive tumor.
Tumor budding may be a predictor of regional lymph node involvement and is associated with worse outcomes, including cancer recurrence, in patients with colorectal cancer.
Dopamine is a member of the catecholamine (Neurotransmitters) family in the brain, and is a precursor to epinephrine (adrenaline) and norepinephrine (noradrenaline).
Dopamine is synthesized in the body (mainly by nervous tissue and adrenal glands)
first by the hydration of the amino acid tyrosine to DOPA by tyrosine hydroxylase and then by the decarboxylation of DOPA by aromatic-L-amino-acid decarboxylase.
1,3-Dimethylbenzene (m-Xylene) is an aromatic hydrocarbon, based on benzene with two methyl substituents.
It is an isomer of o-xylene and p-xylene.
The m stands for meta, meaning the two methyl substituents are at locants 1 and 3 on the aromatic ring.
The major chemical use of metaxylene is in the manufacture of isophthalic acid, which is used as a copolymer to alter the properties of polyethylene terephthalate (PET) making PET more suitable for the manufacture of soft drinks bottles.
Xanthines are a group of alkaloids that are commonly used for their effects as mild stimulants and as bronchodilators, notably in treating the symptoms of asthma.
Their effects, however, are widespread and their therapeutic range is narrow and so they are not the drug of choice in asthma treatment.
Methylated xanthine derivatives include caffeine, theophylline, and theobromine (found mainly in chocolate).
These drugs inhibit phosphodiesterase and antagonise adenosine.
The core compound, xanthine, is a product on the pathway of purine degradation and is converted to uric acid by the action of the xanthine oxidase enzyme.
Some people lack sufficient xanthine oxidase, and thus xanthine cannot be converted to uric acid.
This rare genetic disorder is called xanthinuria.
Xanthines are purine derivatives and found very rarely in constituents of nucleic acids.
The difference value between two measurements that represent a significant change at the confidence level provided.
The BTK gene (Bruton agammaglobulinemia tyrosine kinase) is located on chromosome Xq21.33-q22.
The protein encoded by this gene plays a crucial role in B-cell development.
Mutations in this gene cause X-linked agammaglobulinemia type 1, which is an immunodeficiency characterized by the failure to produce mature B lymphocytes, and associated with a failure of Ig heavy chain rearrangement.
Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms.
The TRPS1 gene (trichorhinophalangeal syndrome I) is located on chromosome 8q24.12.
This gene encodes a transcription factor that represses GATA-regulated genes and binds to a dynein light chain protein.
Binding of the encoded protein to the dynein light chain protein affects binding to GATA consensus sequences and suppresses its transcriptional activity.
Defects in this gene are a cause of tricho-rhino-phalangeal syndrome (TRPS) types I-III.
A spice, which may result in allergy symptoms in sensitised individuals.
Dill is considered both an herb and a spice, and belongs to the Carrot (Apiaceae) family (which includes Anise, Caraway, Coriander, Fennel, Parsley and Celery).
It is an annual plant similar in appearance to Fennel, with delicate, blue-green lacy leaves and small golden flowers.
It is used to flavour a great many dishes.
Dill may uncommonly induce symptoms of food allergy in sensitised individuals.
Viral genomic sequencing is performed on patient plasma.
Genomic mutations may occur, resulting in resistance to specific antiretroviral drugs.
Ritonavir is a Protease Inhibitor (PI) antiretroviral drug used in the treatment of HIV.
Drug resistance reports assist with treatment decisions.
The distance from hard tissue Pogonion to soft tissue Pogonion, measured parallel with Frankfort Horizontal plane.
Dextropropoxyphene is an analgesic in the opioid category structurally related to methadone.
It is used to treat mild to moderate pain and as an antitussive.
It can be used to ease pain before, during and after an operation.
It is often combined with acetaminophen in the preparation co-proxamol (Darvocet in the US and Capadex in AUS).
It is an optical isomer of Levopropoxyphene.
The racemic mixture is called Propoxyphene.
Propoxyphene is now banned in many countries due to cardiac side effects, and has been removed from the US market since 2010.
Essential fatty acids, (EFAs) are fatty acids that humans and other animals must ingest because the body requires them for good health but cannot synthesize them.
The term "essential fatty acid" refers to fatty acids required for biological processes but does not include the fats that only act as fuel.
Essential fatty acids should not be confused with essential oils, which are "essential" in the sense of being a concentrated essence.
Only two fatty acids are known to be essential for humans: alpha-linolenic acid (an omega-3 fatty acid) and linoleic acid (an omega-6 fatty acid).
Some other fatty acids are sometimes classified as "conditionally essential," meaning that they can become essential under some developmental or disease conditions; examples include docosahexaenoic acid (an omega-3 fatty acid) and gamma-linolenic acid (an omega-6 fatty acid).
Direct or indirect contact with bird (Budgerigar, Budgie, Parakeet) allergens frequently causes sensitization.
Bird allergens may be major components in house dust.
Prader-Willi syndrome (PWS) risk refers to the fetus's risk of being affected by PWS.
The risk for the fetus can be derived from the general population risk as well as prenatal genetic testing of fetal DNA.
PWS is caused by the functional loss of several genes on chromosome 15.
Normally, only the paternal copy of these genes is active due to genomic imprinting, and in PWS, the paternal copy of these genes is missing.
The genetic basis for PWS is the inverse of the basis for Angelman syndrome, in which the maternal copy of a specific gene on chromosome 15 is missing.
About 70% of PWS cases are due to the deletion of a portion of the paternal chromosome 15, and another 25% are due to the presence of two maternal chromosome 15 copies (called uniparental disomy, meaning two copies from one parent) instead of one maternal and one paternal.
PWS is associated with different characteristics over time.
Infants with PWS have poor growth, developmental delay, and weak muscle tone.
Children with PWS develop a compulsion to eat, which leads to obesity and type 2 diabetes mellitus.
PWS is associated with mild to moderate cognitive delay, behavior problems, characteristic facial features, and delayed puberty.
The general population risk of PWS is about 1 in 10,000 - 30,000 live births, and does not change with maternal age.
An enzyme of the hydrolase class that catalyzes the reaction of triacylglycerol and water to yield diacylglycerol and a fatty acid anion.
The enzyme hydrolyzes triacylglycerols in chylomicrons, very-low-density lipoproteins, low-density lipoproteins, and diacylglycerols.
It occurs on capillary endothelial surfaces, especially in mammary, muscle, and adipose tissue.
Genetic deficiency of the enzyme causes familial hyperlipoproteinemia Type I. (Dorland, 27th ed) .
The Eastern Black walnut (Juglans nigra) is a species of flowering tree in the hickory family, Juglandaceae, that is native to eastern North America.
It grows mostly in riparian zones, from southern Ontario, west to southeast South Dakota, south to Georgia, northern Florida and southwest to central Texas.
Hydrogen breath test using lactose is performed to diagnose a lactose malabsorption.
A pre dose reading of hydrogen levels is collected.
The patient is then given a small amount of pure lactose (typically 20 to 25 g), and then required to take readings every 15, 30 or 60 minutes for two to three hours.
If the level of hydrogen rises above 20 ppm (parts per million) over the lowest preceding value within the test period, the patient is typically diagnosed as a lactose malabsorber.
If the patient produces methane then the parts per million for the methane typically rises 12 ppm over the lowest preceding value to be considered positive.
If the patient produces both hydrogen and methane then the values are typically added together and the mean of the numbers is used to determine positive results, usually 15 ppm over the lowest preceding value.
However, recent study suggest that testing may not correlate with any actual diagnosis.
Aureobasidium pullulans is a ubiquitous yeast-like fungus that can be found in different environments (e.g. soil, water, air and limestone).
It is well known as a naturally occurring epiphyte or endophyte of a wide range of plant species (e.g. apple, grape, cucumber, green beans, cabbage) without causing any diseases.
The fungus grows at 10-35 °C with optimum growth at 30 °C.
Chronic human exposure via humidifiers or air conditioners can lead to hypersensitivity pneumonitis (extrinsic allergic alveolitis) or "humidifier lung".
This condition is characterized acutely by dyspnea, cough, fever, chest infiltrates, and acute inflammatory reaction.
The condition can also be chronic, and lymphocyte mediated, characterized radiographically by reticulonodular infiltrates in the lung, with apical sparing.
Fumonisin B1 (FB1), fumonisin B2 (FB2), and fumonisin B3 (FB3) are mycotoxins produced by Fusarium moniliforme in various grains and have been associated with a number of diseases in both humans and animals.
Fumonisin is thought to cause equine leukoencephalomalacia in horses, acute pulmonary edema in swine, and esophageal cancer in humans.
Interleukin 1, beta, also known as IL1B, is a cytokine protein which in humans is encoded by the IL1B gene.
IL-1β precursor is cleaved by caspase 1 (interleukin 1 beta convertase).
Cytosolic thiol protease cleaves the product to form mature IL-1β.
A number of studies associate the gene with susceptibility to schizophrenia
The Kell glycoprotein is a transmembrane, single-pass protein that carries the Kell antigens.
It is an endothelin-3-converting enzyme; it cleaves "big" endothelin-3 to produce an active form that is a potent vasoconstrictor.
The KEL gene encodes the Kell antigens.
Beck L, Blood groups and red cell antigens. .
Retinol and derivatives of retinol that play an essential role in metabolic functioning of the retina, the growth of and differentiation of epithelial tissue, the growth of bone, reproduction, and the immune response.
Dietary vitamin A is derived from a variety of CAROTENOIDS found in plants.
It is enriched in the liver, egg yolks, and the fat component of dairy products.
2,4-Dinitrophenylhydrazine (DNPH, Brady's reagent) is the chemical compound C6H3(NO2)2NHNH2.
It is a substituted hydrazine, and is often used to qualitatively test for carbonyl groups associated with aldehydes and ketones.
The hydrazone derivatives can also be used as evidence toward the identity of the original compound.
The Northern Red Oak or Champion Oak, Quercus rubra (syn. Quercus borealis), is an oak in the red oak group (Quercus section Lobatae).
It is a native of North America, in the northeastern United States and southeast Canada.
It grows from the north end of the Great Lakes, east to Nova Scotia, south as far as Georgia and states with good soil that is slightly acidic.
Often simply called "Red Oak", northern red oak is formally so named to distinguish it from southern red oak (Q. falcata), also known as the Spanish oak.
Microorganism cast can contain either bacteria or yeast.
Bacterial casts are observed in patients with infection of kidney.
Fungal casts have been found in the urine of patients with visceral candidiasis.
An essential amino acid occurring naturally in the L-form, which is the active form.
It is found in eggs, milk, gelatin, cottage cheese, poultry, fish, meat, lentils, sesame seeds and other proteins.
A histamine H1 antagonist.
It has mild hypnotic properties and some local anesthetic action and is used for allergies (including skin eruptions) both parenterally and locally.
It is a common ingredient of cold remedies.
Cytochrome P450 1A2 (CYP1A2)-mediated drug metabolism is highly variable and often based on a patient's genotype.
Genetic testing is performed to identifying patients who are poor, intermediate, extensive, or ultrarapid metabolizers of drugs metabolized by CYP1A2.
The CYP1A2 c.558C>A polymorphism is associated with greatly decreased activity of the CYP1A2 enzyme.
A slow-growing, photochromogenic species that is the etiologic agent of a tuberculosis-like disease in humans and is frequently isolated from human pulmonary secretions or tubercles.
The incidence of infection is sharply increased among immunocompromised individuals.
Canine distemper is a viral disease affecting animals in the families Canidae, Mustelidae, Mephitidae, Procyonidae, and possibly Felidae (though not domestic cats ; feline distemper or panleukopenia is a virus exclusive to cats).
Trisomy 13 risk refers to the fetus's risk of having trisomy 13.
The risk can be estimated based on maternal age as well as prenatal genetic testing of fetal DNA.
Trisomy 13, also called Patau syndrome, is caused by the presence of three copies of chromosome 13 in each cell rather than two.
Patau syndrome is associated with severe cognitive delay, various forms of congenital heart disease, brain or spinal cord abnormalities, hypotonia, cleft lip and/or palate, and poorly developed eyes.
Many liveborn infants with Patau syndrome die within the first weeks of life, and less than 10% survive longer than one year.
The general population risk of Trisomy 13 is about 1 in 16,000 live births, but the risk increases with increasing maternal age.
A plasma protein that is the inactive precursor of thrombin.
It is converted to thrombin by a prothrombin activator complex consisting of factor Xa, factor V, phospholipid, and calcium ions.
Deficiency of prothrombin leads to hypoprothrombinemia.
Rhodotorula is a pigmented yeast, part of the Basidiomycota phylum, quite easily identifiable by distinctive orange/red colonies when grown on SDA (Sabouraud's Dextrose Agar).
This distinctive color is the result of pigments that the yeast creates to block out certain wavelengths of light that would otherwise be damaging to the cell.
Colony color can vary from being cream colored to orange/red/pink or yellow.
Rhodotorula is a common environmental inhabitant.
It can be cultured from soil, water, and air samples.
It is able to scavenge nitrogenous compounds from its environment remarkably well, growing even in air which has been carefully cleaned of any fixed nitrogen contaminants.
In such conditions, the nitrogen content of the dry weight of Rhodotorula can drop as low as 1%, compared to around 14% for most bacteria growing in normal conditions.
The CYP11B1 gene (cytochrome P450, family 11, subfamily B, polypeptide 1) is located on chromosome 8q21.
This gene encodes a member of the cytochrome P450 superfamily of enzymes.
The cytochrome P450 proteins are monooxygenases which catalyze many reactions involved in drug metabolism and synthesis of cholesterol, steroids and other lipids.
This protein localizes to the mitochondrial inner membrane and is involved in the conversion of progesterone to cortisol in the adrenal cortex.
Mutations in this gene cause congenital adrenal hyperplasia due to 11-beta-hydroxylase deficiency.
Transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been noted for this gene.
Cutibacterium acnes (formerly known as Propionibacterium acnes), a slow-growing Gram-positive biofilm-forming rod implicated in acne vulgaris, is part of the normal flora of human skin, conjunctiva, oral cavity and large intestines.
Although frequently thought to be a culture contaminant, it has been implicated in cases of endocarditis, endopthalmitis, intravascular infections, central nervous system infections and arthritis.
It is increasingly recognized for its role in implant-associated infections, where diagnosis is challenging due to its fastidious nature and slow growth .
A pyrimidine analog that is an antineoplastic antimetabolite.
It interferes with DNA synthesis by blocking the THYMIDYLATE SYNTHETASE conversion of deoxyuridylic acid to thymidylic acid.
The TNFAIP3 gene, located on chromosome 6, encodes tumor necrosis factor (TNF) alpha-induced protein 3.
TNF alpha-induced protein 3 is a ubiquitin-editing enzyme that is involved in cytokine-induced immune and inflammatory responses.
Mutations in TNFAIP3 cause a familial, autosomal dominant Behcet-like autoinflammatory syndrome that is characterized by mucosal ulceration, rash, uveitis, and polyarthritis.
The CHIC2 gene (cysteine-rich hydrophobic domain 2) is located on chromosome 4q11.
This gene encodes a member of the CHIC family of proteins.
The encoded protein contains a cysteine-rich hydrophobic (CHIC) motif, and is localized to vesicular structures and the plasma membrane.
This gene is associated with some cases of acute myeloid leukemia.
A methylated metabolite of norepinephrine that is excreted in the urine and found in certain tissues.
It is a marker for certain tumors.
Elevated levels of phosphorylated tau at threonine 181 (p-tau181) protein in CSF is associated with neurodegenerative processes and a candidate biomarker for Alzheimer's disease (AD).
P-tau181 in CSF is thought to aid in the differential diagnosis of AD versus non-AD dementia, such as Lewy body disease.
CTGF (connective tissue growth factor) is a cysteine-rich, matrix-associated, heparin-binding protein.
In vitro, CTGF mirrors some of the effects of TGF beta on skin fibroblasts, such as stimulation of extracellular matrix production, chemotaxis, proliferation and integrin expression.
CTGF can promote endothelial cell growth, migration, adhesion and survival and is thus implicated in endothelial cell function and angiogenesis.
Surfactant, pulmonary-associated protein D, also known as SFTPD or SP-D, is a protein encoded by the SFTPD gene.
It is a member of the calcium-dependent lectins (collectins) and synthesized by type II epithelial cells and Clara cells in the lung.
SP-D has a function in immunity, host defense and surfactant metabolism.
SP-D values may be supportive in patients with interstial lung diseases and is considered to be supportive in patients with ARDS and CF.
SFTPD levels may be ordered with CC16 (Clara-cell secretory protein), an anti-inflammatory marker with respect to the integrity of the lung epithelium.
It may also be ordered with macrophage-derived YKL-40 (Chitinase-3-like protein 1 (CHI3L1)), which provides information about the condition of the interstitium of the lung.
A TETRACYCLINE analog, having a 7-dimethylamino and lacking the 5 methyl and hydroxyl groups, which is effective against tetracycline-resistant STAPHYLOCOCCUS infections.
Inhibin is a peptide that is an inhibitor of FSH synthesis and secretion, and participates in the regulation of the menstrual cycle.
Ascaris is a genus of parasitic nematode worms known as the "giant intestinal roundworms".
One species, A. suum, typically infects pigs, while another, A. lumbricoides, affects human populations, typically in sub-tropical and tropical areas with poor sanitation.
A. lumbricoides is the largest intestinal roundworm and is the most common helminth infection of humans worldwide, an infection known as ascariasis.
Infestation can cause morbidity, and sometimes death, by compromising nutritional status, affecting cognitive processes, inducing tissue reactions, such as granuloma, and provoking intestinal obstruction or rectal prolapse.
Prostaglandins are fatty acids derived from arachidonic acid metabolism.
They are closely related to the Thromboxanes and Leukotrienes.
Prostaglandin D2 is derived mainly from Prostaglandin H2, and is metabolized to Dihydroketo Prostaglandin D2.
Prostaglandin D2 is excreted directly into the urine.
The sites of highest Prostaglandin D2 activity are the brain, spinal cord, intestines, and stomach.
Prostaglandin D2 is the major Prostaglandin produced by uterine tissue.
Prostaglandin D2 is a potent bronchoconstrictor, neuromodulator, and anti-antithrombin agent.
It also stimulates the secretion of Pancreatic Glucagon.
Prostaglandin D2 has been found to have an anti-metastatic effect on many malignant tumor cells.
Prostaglandin D2 production and circulating levels are drastically suppressed by aspirin and indomethacin.
The HP gene encodes a preproprotein, which yields both alpha and beta chains, which subsequently combine as a tetramer to produce haptoglobin.
Haptoglobin binds free plasma hemoglobin, which allows degradative enzymes to gain access to the hemoglobin, while at the same time preventing loss of iron through the kidneys and protecting the kidneys from damage by hemoglobin.
Mutations in this gene and/or its regulatory regions cause ahaptoglobinemia or hypohaptoglobinemia.
This gene has also been linked to diabetic nephropathy, the incidence of coronary artery disease in type 1 diabetes, Crohn's disease, inflammatory disease behavior, primary sclerosing cholangitis, susceptibility to idiopathic Parkinson's disease, and a reduced incidence of Plasmodium falciparum malaria.
A similar duplicated gene is located next to this gene on chromosome 16.
Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
Isopropanol (C3H8O), also known as isopropyl alcohol, is a hydrocarbon prepared from propylene or from the reduction of acetone.
This highly flammable alcohol is colorless and has a slight odor.
Industrially, acetone is a component of antifreeze, industrial solvents, shellac, essintial oils and more.
In cosmetic and medicinal products, acetone is used in body rubs, hand lotions, after shave lotions, and as an antiseptic.
Human overexposure to isoproanol can result in central nervous depression, brain damage, vomiting, and other symptoms.
The late onset form of MULTIPLE CARBOXYLASE DEFICIENCY (deficiency of the activities of biotin-dependent enzymes propionyl-CoA carboxylase, methylcrotonyl-CoA carboxylase, and PYRUVATE CARBOXYLASE) due to a defect or deficiency in biotinidase which is essential for recycling BIOTIN.
Oritavancin (INN, also known as LY333328) is a novel semi-synthetic glycopeptide antibiotic being developed for the treatment of serious Gram-positive infections.
Its structure is similar to vancomycin.
It is a lipoglycopeptide.
A lipoprotein is a biochemical assembly that contains both proteins and lipids and may be structural or catalytic in function.
Lipoproteins may be enzymes, proton pumps, ion pumps, for transport, or some combination of these functions.
Examples include the high density and low density lipoproteins of the blood and the transmembrane proteins of the mitochondrion and the chloroplast.
Willows are cool-climate trees and are common in most of Europe, North America, western temperate Asia, and northeast Africa.
Willow tree pollen can induce asthma, allergic rhinitis and allergic conjunctivitis.
As a close relationship exists between this Willow and other species, these species, where they commonly occur, may also induce allergic symptoms
Lymphocytes with IgM surface Ag
Ionized magnesium (free magnesium) in whole blood, serum, or plasma is measured to diagnose and treat of hypomagnesemia (abnormally low plasma levels of magnesium) and hypermagnesemia (abnormally high levels of magnesium).
2-Hydroxycarboxylic acids (2-hydroxyisovaleric acid, 2-hydroxyisocaproic acid and 2-hydroxy-3-methylvaleric acid) are derived from the metabolism of the branched-chain amino acids and may be elevated during ketoacidosis .
Vital capacity (VC) is the largest volume a patient can exhale after a full inhalation, and forced vital capacity (FVC) is the largest volume a patient can exhale with maximum effort after a full inhalation.
In people without lung disease, VC and FVC are essentially the same.
However, in patients with asthma and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), FVC may be less than VC due to airway resistance, small airway collapse and gas trapping.
The difference between VC and FVC is associated with degree of airflow limitation as well as exercise tolerance in patients with COPD.
Histamine is an organic nitrogen compound involved in local immune responses as well as regulating physiological function in the gut and acting as a neurotransmitter.
Histamine triggers the inflammatory response.
As part of an immune response to foreign pathogens, histamine is produced by basophils and by mast cells found in nearby connective tissues.
Histamine increases the permeability of the capillaries to white blood cells and some proteins, to allow them to engage pathogens in the infected tissues.
Acremonium is a fungal genus formerly known as Cephalosporium.
Nearly 100 species of Acremonium have been identified.
Acremonium has been implicated in infections of the pulmonary system and cornea and nail infections in patients with compromised immune systems.
Information from Mold and Bacteria Consulting Laboratories 2006 10 23.
Asenapine is used to treat the symptoms of schizophrenia and may be used alone or in combination with other medications to treat or prevent episodes of mania (frenzied, abnormally excited mood) or mixed mania (frenzied, abnormally excited mood and symptoms of depression) in adults and children 10 years of age and older with bipolar I disorder.
Asenapine is in a class of medications called atypical antipsychotics.
The Risk Evaluation and Mitigation Strategies (REMS) information is included in pharmacy systems using Structured Product Labeling (SPL).
REMS document type indexing for shared systems is used to reference multiple companies' REMS SPL Files.
Solithromycin is a novel ketolide antibiotic undergoing clinical development for the treatment of community-acquired pneumonia (CAP) and other infections.
It exhibits excellent in vitro activity against a broad spectrum of Gram-positive respiratory tract pathogens, including macrolide-resistant strains.
The Brazil Nut is a South American tree Bertholletia excelsa in the family Lecythidaceae.
It is the only species in the genus Bertholletia.
It is native to Guiana, Venezuela, Brazil, eastern Colombia, eastern Peru and eastern Bolivia.
It occurs as scattered trees in large forests on the banks of the Amazon, Rio Negro, and the Orinoco.
The genus is named after the French chemist Claude Louis Berthollet.
It is a large tree, reaching 30-45 m tall and 1-2 m trunk diameter, among the largest of trees in the Amazon rain forests.
It may live for 500 years or more.
The stem is straight and commonly unbranched for well over half the tree's height, with a large emergent crown of long branches above the surrounding canopy of other trees.
The bark is grayish and smooth.
The leaves are dry-season deciduous, alternate, simple, entire or crenate, oblong, 20-35 cm long and 10-15 cm broad.
Acetyldigitoxin is a cardiac glycoside.
It is an acetyl derivative of digitoxin.
Aesculus hippocastanum is a large deciduous tree, commonly known as Horse-chestnut or Conker tree.
It is native to a small area in the mountains of the Balkans in southeast Europe, in small areas in northern Greece, Albania, the Republic of Macedonia, Serbia, and Bulgaria (Pindus Mountains mixed forests and Balkan mixed forests).
It is widely cultivated throughout the temperate world.
Hemoglobin S (HbS) is a variant form of hemoglobin found in people with sickle cell disease.
The Hb S variant occurs primarily among people of African, Hispanic, and Mediterranean descent.
Hb S has a variation in the β-chain gene that causes a change in the properties of hemoglobin, resulting in abnormal, rigid, sickling shape of red blood cells.
Individuals with two copies of the Hb S variant have classic sickle cell disease (sickle cell anemia, HbSS).
Individuals with one HbS variant and one normal hemoglobin, Hb A, have sickle cell trait (HbAS) and usually have no associated symptoms.
Hemoglobins exhibit different migration patterns in alkaline versus acidic electrophoresis conditions.
So a combination of 2 procedures can be used in tandem to identify the hemoglobin variants.
Galactokinase is an enzyme that catalyzes reversibly the formation of galactose 1-phosphate and ADP from ATP and D-galactose.
Galactokinase deficiency is the second most common cause of galactosemia and is associated with milder illness than the classic form, which is caused by galactose-1-phosphate uridyltransferase deficiency.
The major manifestation of galactokinase deficiency (also called galactosemia type II) is bilateral juvenile cataracts, which may be partially or completely prevented with dietary lactose restriction.
Testing for uranium isotopes (U238, U235, U234) and depleted uranium (DU) may be performed to determine occupational exposure in the workplaces that involve uranium mining, milling, or processing.
Exposure occurs primarily by inhaling dust and other small particles.
Exposure to DU may also occur in military personnel from retention internal shrapnel that contains DU or exposure to dust generated from ammunition impact.
Health effects from uranium exposure can result from chemical toxicity to the kidney, which can occur occasionally from high occupational exposure.
Allergens to sheep epithelium (Phadia allergen code e81) may result in asthma, allergic rhinitis and allergic conjunctivitis.
Direct or indirect contact with animal allergens frequently causes sensitisation.
Allergic reactions to sheep wool have also been described, but results are conflicting across studies.
Serological evidence of immunity to vaccine preventable diseases for an individual patient.
Serological evidence is the best indicator of immunity.
HPV type 16 has been associated with low grade cervical abnormalities, cancer precursors, and anogenital cancers.
Type 16 is the cause of approximately 50% of cervical cancers worldwide, HPV types 16 and 18 together account for about 70% of cervical cancers.
Lupus anticoagulant neutralization test is a confirmatory test that detects antibodies K777 against factors that prevent blood clotting.
When a lupus anticoagulant is positive, mixing studies are performed to confirm the presence of an inhibitor.
Excess hexagonal phase phospholipid is added to the patient sample before re-running the test.
The addition of excess phospholipid will neutralize the clotting inhibitors because lupus anticoagulants are phospholipid dependent.
The addition of excess phospholipid overwhelms the lupus anticoagulants and corrects the clotting time.
Staphylococcus aureus is a bacteria that produces many enterotoxins which are a major cause of food poisoning.
These toxins are also allergens that activate IgE and worsen skin infections by stimulating inflammation.
Staphylococcus aureus enterotoxin E (SEE) is one of six enterotoxins secreted by S. aureus that often colonizes patients with atopic dermatitis.
Those colonies secrete enterotoxins which penetrate the lesions of the area of dermatitis.
Patients with IgE to the toxin and S. aureus on the skin have much more severe dermatitis.
Whether the electrical activity of the ventricle has been captured by the pacemaker, meaning that the pacemaker is initiating depolarization.
The major circulating metabolite of vitamin D3 (Calciferol).
Stools, or feces, are comprised of water (approximately 75%), bacterial biomass, cells, and undigested carbohydrates, fiber, protein and fat.
Laboratory examination of feces (stool test) is performed to diagnose various conditions, to detect the presence of parasites, or to detect disease spreading bacteria.
Abnormalities with bowel movements may be a sign of a digestive problem or health issue.
Galactose (Gal) (also called brain sugar) is a type of sugar found in dairy products, in sugar beets and other gums and mucilages.
It is also synthesized by the body, where it forms part of glycolipids and glycoproteins in several tissues.
It is considered a nutritive sweetener because it has food energy.
Galactose is less sweet than glucose and not very water-soluble.
Galactan is a polymer of the sugar galactose.
It is found in hemicellulose and can be converted to galactose by hydrolysis.
Galactose is a monosaccharide constituent, together with glucose, of the disaccharide lactose.
The hydrolysis of lactose to glucose and galactose is catalyzed by the enzyme beta-galactosidase, a lactase.
In the human body, glucose is changed into galactose in order to enable the mammary glands to secrete lactose.
CD82 (Cluster of Differentiation 82) is a human protein encoded by the CD82 gene.
This metastasis suppressor gene product is a membrane glycoprotein that is a member of the transmembrane 4 superfamily.
Expression of this gene has been shown to be downregulated in tumor progression of human cancers and can be activated by p53 through a consensus binding sequence in the promoter.
Its expression and that of p53 are strongly correlated, and the loss of expression of these two proteins is associated with poor survival for prostate cancer patients.
Two alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms have been found for this gene.
Pineapple (Ananas comosus) is the common name for a tropical plant and its edible fruit which are coalesced berries.
Pineapples are the only bromeliad fruit in widespread cultivation.
A metabolite of 17-ALPHA-HYDROXYPROTESTERONE, normally produced in small quantities by the GONADS and the ADRENAL GLANDS, found in URINE.
An elevated urinary pregnanetriol is associated with CONGENITAL ADRENAL HYPERPLASIA with a deficiency of STEROID 21-HYDROXYLASE.
A sympathomimetic that acts mainly by causing release of NOREPINEPHRINE but also has direct agonist activity at some adrenergic receptors.
It is most commonly used as a nasal vasoconstrictor and an appetite depressant.
Aspergillus terreus is a fungus commonly used in industry to produce important organic acids, such as itaconic acid and cis-aconitic acid.
It was also the initial source for the drug mevinolin (lovastatin), a drug for lowering serum cholesterol.
A. terreus may cause opportunistic infection in people with deficient immune systems.
It is refractory to amphotericin B therapy.
Paramethadione is an anticonvulsant in the oxazolidinedione class.
It is associated with fetal trimethadione syndrome, which is also known as paramethadione syndrome.
Canis familiaris allergen rCan f 5 is a recombinant non-glycosylated protein of the natural canis familiaris f 5 allergen.
Recombinant allergens are genetically engineered isoforms that have immunologic and biochemical properties comparable to that of natural allergens.
Can f 5, also known as prostatic kallikrein, is found in dog urine and closely related or identical to a protein found in dog dander.
Cabot rings are thin, red-violet staining, threadlike strands in the shape of a loop or figure-8 that are found on rare occasions in erythrocytes.
They are believed to be microtubules that are remnants from a mitotic spindle.
Cabot rings have been observed in a handful of cases in patients with megaloblastic anemia, lead poisoning and other disorders of erythropoiesis.
The DYS gene (inhibitor of kappa light polypeptide gene enhancer in B-cells, kinase complex-associated protein) gene is located on chromosome 9q31.
The protein encoded by this gene is a scaffold protein and a regulator for 3 different kinases involved in proinflammatory signaling.
This encoded protein can bind NF-kappa-B-inducing kinase (NIK) and IKKs through separate domains and assemble them into an active kinase complex.
Mutations in this gene have been associated with familial dysautonomia.
The ACTA1 gene (actin, alpha 1, skeletal muscle) is located on chromosome 1q42.13.
The product encoded by this gene belongs to the actin family of proteins, which are highly conserved proteins that play a role in cell motility, structure and integrity.
Alpha, beta and gamma actin isoforms have been identified, with alpha actins being a major constituent of the contractile apparatus, while beta and gamma actins are involved in the regulation of cell motility.
This actin is an alpha actin that is found in skeletal muscle.
Mutations in this gene cause nemaline myopathy type 3, congenital myopathy with excess of thin myofilaments, congenital myopathy with cores, and congenital myopathy with fiber-type disproportion, diseases that lead to muscle fiber defects.
A sweet viscous liquid food, produced in the honey sacs of various bees from nectar collected from flowers.
The nectar is ripened into honey by inversion of its sucrose sugar into fructose and glucose.
It is somewhat acidic and has mild antiseptic properties, being sometimes used in the treatment of burns and lacerations.
DQB1*0302 and is found most often in the haplotype DQA1*0301:DQB1*0302, about 10% of the time it is found in the haplotype DQA1*0302:DQB1*0302.
DQB1*0302 are almost always linked to DR4, DRB1*0401, *0402, and *0404 in caucasians.
The first and third DRB1 are most strongly associated with rheumatoid arthritis.
Clindamycin, a lincosamide antibiotic, is semisynthetic and derived from lincomycin by 7(S)-chloro-substitution of the 7(R)-hydroxyl group of lincomycin.
It is marketed under various trade names, including Dalacin, Duac, BenzaClin, and Clindoxyl and Acanya (in combination with benzoyl peroxide), and Ziana (with tretinoin).
Clindamycin is also available as a generic drug.
The TNNT3 gene (troponin T3, fast skeletal type) is located on chromosome 11p15.5.
The binding of Ca(2+) to the trimeric troponin complex initiates the process of muscle contraction.
Increased Ca(2+) concentrations produce a conformational change in the troponin complex that is transmitted to tropomyosin dimers situated along actin filaments.
The altered conformation permits increased interaction between a myosin head and an actin filament which, ultimately, produces a muscle contraction.
The troponin complex has protein subunits C, I, and T. Subunit C binds Ca(2+) and subunit I binds to actin and inhibits actin-myosin interaction.
Subunit T binds the troponin complex to the tropomyosin complex and is also required for Ca(2+)-mediated activation of actomyosin ATPase activity.
There are 3 different troponin T genes that encode tissue-specific isoforms of subunit T for fast skeletal-, slow skeletal-, and cardiac-muscle.
This gene encodes fast skeletal troponin T protein; also known as troponin T type 3.
Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding additional distinct troponin T type 3 isoforms.
A developmentally regulated switch between fetal/neonatal and adult troponin T type 3 isoforms occurs.
Additional splice variants have been described but their biological validity has not been established.
Mutations in this gene may cause distal arthrogryposis multiplex congenita type 2B (DA2B).
Orientia tsutsugamushi is the causative organism of scrub typhus, and the natural vector and reservoir is probably trombiculid mites (genus Leptotrombidium).The organism is an obligate intracellular pathogen, which needs to infect eukaryotic cells in order to multiply.
The envelope is similar to that of Gram negative bacteria, but it is not easily stained with Gram stain and the Gimenez stain is preferred.
Olanzapine (brand name Zyprexa) is an atypical antipsychotic used to treat the symptoms of schizophrenia and bipolar disorder in adults and teenagers 13 years of age and older.
It works by changing the activity of certain natural substances in the brain.
Olanzapine is not approved by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for the treatment of behavior disorders in older adults with dementia as there is an increased risk of stroke and death during treatment.
A turkey is either one of two species of large birds in the genus Meleagris.
Turkeys are birds classed in the gamebird order.
As with many galliform species, the female is smaller than the male, and much less colorful.
With their wingspans of 1.5-1.8 meters, the turkeys are by far the largest birds in the open forests in which they live, and are rarely mistaken for any other species.
The two species are the North American Wild Turkey (M. gallopavo) and the Central American Ocellated Turkey (M. ocellata).
The modern domesticated turkey was developed from the Wild Turkey.
The Ocellated Turkey was probably also domesticated by the Mayans.
It has been speculated that this species is more tractable than its northern counterpart, and was the source of the present domesticated stock, but there is no morphological evidence to support this theory.
Aggregate reticulocytes are less mature and mature into punctate over the course of about 36 hours.
From a biological standpoint, water has many distinct properties that are critical for the proliferation of life that set it apart from other substances.
It carries out this role by allowing organic compounds to react in ways that ultimately allow replication.
All known forms of life depend on water.
Water is vital both as a solvent in which many of the body's solutes dissolve and as an essential part of many metabolic processes within the body.
Metabolism is the sum total of anabolism and catabolism.
In anabolism, water is removed from molecules (through energy requiring enzymatic chemical reactions) in order to grow larger molecules (e.g. starches, triglycerides and proteins for storage of fuels and information).
In catabolism, water is used to break bonds in order to generate smaller molecules (e.g. glucose, fatty acids and amino acids to be used for fuels for energy use or other purposes).
Water is thus essential and central to these metabolic processes.
Therefore, without water, these metabolic processes would cease to exist, leaving us to muse about what processes would be in its place, such as gas absorption, dust collection, etc.
A group of compounds derived from unsaturated 20-carbon fatty acids, primarily arachidonic acid, via the cyclooxygenase pathway.
They are extremely potent mediators of a diverse group of physiological processes.
Blastomyces is a thick-walled dimorphic fungus responsible for Blastomycosis.
The most well known species is Blastomyces dermatitidis which, despite its name, typically causes pulmonary infections.
The SUMF1 gene is located on chromosome 3p26.1 and encodes formylglycine-generating enzyme (FGE).
FGE converts cysteine molecules in sulfatase enzymes to C-alpha-formylglycine.
Mutations in the SUMF1 gene cause the production of unstable FGE or FGE with reduced activity and result in multiple sulfatase deficiency, a condition in which the many different sulfatase enzymes that FGE usually modifies are affected.
This results in an accumulation of sulfatase substrates in neurological, skeletal, and skin tissue.
This disorder is usually diagosed at birth or during early childhood, is progressive, and affected individuals often do not survive more than 2 to 3 years after the onset of symptoms.
Norcitalopram is a major metabolite of citalopram, an antidepressant and used to reduce ethanol uptake in alcoholics.
The ratio of antidepressant to major metabolite may be determined to evaluate the dose required to maintain effective therapy.
Sulfamethizole is a sulfonamide antibiotic.
Semisynthetic 1-N-ethyl derivative of SISOMYCIN, an aminoglycoside antibiotic with action similar to gentamicin, but less ear and kidney toxicity.
The V84M mutation is associated with Adefovir resistance.
Veterinary medicine: Porcine circoviruses (PCV) are small nonenveloped, single stranded, negative sense, circular DNA viruses in the Circoviridae family.
The three species of PCV are PCV1, PCV2, and PCV3.
PCV2 is the primary virus that causes porcine circovirus disease (PCVD) and porcine circovirus-associated disease (PCVAD) which is described as postweaning multisystemic wasting syndrome (PMWS).
PCV2 is classified into four genotypes that include PCV2a, PCV2b, PCV2c, and PCV2d.
PCV2d was initially isolated in pig herds in China, but has since been identified as the primary genotype of PCV2 infections in pigs in the United States, South Korea and other countries, possibly surpassing PCV2b that had previously been the dominant PCV2 genotype infecting pigs worldwide since 2003.
PCV2a and PCV2b are distributed around the world.
PCV2c was originally known to exist only in healthy, domestic pigs in Denmark, but was later identified in feral pigs in Brazil.
PCV1 is non-pathogenic to swine.
PCV3 is a circovirus species that is circulating in many countries including the United States, China, South Korea and Poland.
LDL apheresis selectively removed LDLc from patient's blood
Periciazine (INN; also known as pericyazine or propericiazine) is a medication that belongs to the phenothiazine class of antipsychotics.
It has also been studied in the treatment of opiate dependence.
Periciazine is not approved for sale in the United States or Canada.
It is commonly sold in the United Kingdom under the tradename Neulactil.
Histrelin acetate is a nonapeptide analog of gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH) with added potency.
When present in the bloodstream, it acts on particular cells of the pituitary gland called gonadotropes.
Histrelin stimulates these cells to release luteinizing hormone and follicle-stimulating hormone.
Thus it is considered a gonadotropin-releasing hormone agonist or GnRH agonist.
Brand names: Vantas and Supprelin LA.
The anterior-inferior angle between the Frankfort Horizontal plane and the Sella-Gnathion line
Docosatetraenoic acid designates any straight chain 22:4 fatty acid.
One isomer is of particular interest: all-cis-7,10,13,16-docosatetraenoic acid is an ω-6 fatty acid with the trivial name adrenic acid.
This is a naturally occurring polyunsaturated fatty acid formed through a 2-carbon chain elongation of arachidonic acid.
It is one of the most abundant fatty acids in the early human brain.
The KARS gene (lysyl-tRNA synthetase) is located on chromosome 16q23.1.
Aminoacyl-tRNA synthetases are a class of enzymes that charge tRNAs with their cognate amino acids.
Lysyl-tRNA synthetase is a homodimer localized to the cytoplasm which belongs to the class II family of tRNA synthetases.
It has been shown to be a target of autoantibodies in the human autoimmune diseases, polymyositis or dermatomyositis.
Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
Carbapenems are famously stable to AmpC β-lactamases and extended-spectrum-β-lactamases.
Carbapenemases are a diverse group of β-lactamases that are active not only against the oxyimino-cephalosporins and cephamycins but also against the carbapenems.
Carbapenemases were formerly believed to derive only from classes A, B, and D, but a class C carbapenemase has been described.
Cerumen (earwax) is a brown, yellowish waxy substance secreted by the ceruminous and sebaceous glands of the outside ear canal.
It cleans, protects and lubricates the ear canal.
Accumulation of cerumen (impaction) can lead to partial or complete obstruction of the ear canal, potentially causing hearing loss and preventing assessment of the ear.
Antigen found in cytoplasm
Hypersegmented neutrophils are neutrophils with 5 or more nuclear lobes.
They are often seen in disorders of nuclear maturation and are thought to be pathognomonic of the class of anemias called megaloblastic anemias.
Some studies, however, have strongly associated neutrophil hypersegmentation with iron deficiency anemia.
One of the earliest changes in the megaloblastic processes is the appearance of these hypersegmented neutrophils.
Because of the short life-span of neutrophils, these abnormal cells characteristically appear even before the onset of anemia.
However, such neutrophils are not seen in the other classes of anemias, which incidently are far more common than megaloblastic anemias.
It is of note that pernicious anemia is a type of megaloblastic anemia, and as such, may show hypersegemented neutrophils.
The hamster zona-free ovum test (HZFO test), or hamster test is a method for diagnosing male infertility due to the inability of the sperm to penetrate the ova.
This test has limited value for most people experiencing infertility.
In this test, sperm are incubated with several hamster eggs that have had the outer membranes removed.
After seven to twenty hours, the number of sperm penetrations per egg is measured.
Having all eggs have been penetrated by multiple sperm is considered to be a positive sign for fertility.
Results suggest that men whose sperm fail the hamster test are three times less fertile than those whose sperm pass.
Donated sperm and ICSI techniques are considered more strongly for those whose sperm fail this test.
Antibiotic complex produced by Streptomyces fradiae.
It is composed of neomycins A, B, and C.
It acts by inhibiting translation during protein synthesis.
The volume of distilled alcohol consumed.
Dioxin is a heterocyclic, organic, antiaromatic compound with the chemical formula C4H4O2.
There are two isomers, 1,2-dioxin (or o-dioxin) and 1,4-dioxin (or p-dioxin).
1,2-Dioxin is very unstable due to its peroxide-like characteristics.
The term "dioxin" is most commonly used for a family of derivatives of dioxin, known as polychlorinated dibenzodioxins (PCDDs).
Plant, toxic decorative seeds, etc. usually material swallowed by child
Helix aspersa, known by the common name garden snail, is a species of land snail, a pulmonate gastropod that is one of the best-known of all terrestrial molluscs.
Neuropeptide Y (NPY) is a 36-amino acid peptide neurotransmitter found in the brain and autonomic nervous system.
NPY has been associated with a number of physiologic processes in the brain, including the regulation of energy balance, memory and learning, and epilepsy.
The main effect is increased food intake and decreased physical activity.
NPY is secreted by the hypothalamus, and, in addition to increasing food intake, it increases the proportion of energy stored as fat and blocks nociceptive signals to the brain.
NPY also augments the vasoconstrictor effects of noradrenergic neurons.
Dodecanedioic acid is a dicarboxylic acid mainly used in antiseptics, top-grade coatings, painting materials, corrosion inhibitor, surfactant, and engineering plastics.
Integrin, beta 1 (fibronectin receptor, beta polypeptide, antigen CD29 includes MDF2, MSK12), also known as ITGB1 or CD29, is a human gene.
CD29 is an integrin unit associated with very late antigen receptors.
Integrins are heterodimeric proteins made up of alpha and beta subunits.
At least 18 alpha and 8 beta subunits have been described in mammals.
Integrin family members are membrane receptors involved in cell adhesion and recognition in a variety of processes including embryogenesis, hemostasis, tissue repair, immune response and metatastatic diffusion of tumor cells.
The protein encoded by this gene is a beta subunit.
Six alternatively spliced variants have been found for this gene which encode five proteins with alternate carboxy termini.
Vinyl bromide is a simple vinyl halide.
It is soluble in chloroform, ethanol, diethyl ether, acetone and benzene.
The cause of tetanus in humans and domestic animals.
It is commonly found in human and horse intestines as well as soil.
Two components make up its potent exotoxin activity, a neurotoxin and a hemolytic toxin.
The DNMT3A (DNA methyltransferase 3 alpha) gene is located on chromosome 2 at 2p23.3.
CpG methylation is an epigenetic modification that is important for embryonic development, imprinting, and X-chromosome inactivation.
Studies in mice have demonstrated that DNA methylation is required for mammalian development.
This gene encodes a DNA methyltransferase that is thought to function in de novo methylation, rather than maintenance methylation.
The protein localizes to the cytoplasm and nucleus and its expression is developmentally regulated.
The N-demethylated derivative of the antipsychotic agent LOXAPINE that works by blocking the reuptake of norepinephrine, serotonin, or both.
It also blocks dopamine receptors.
Abacavir (ABC) is a Nucleoside Reverse Transcriptase Inhibitor(NRTI) antiretroviral drug used in the treatment of HIV.
Drug resistance reports assist with treatment decisions.
The ABCB4 gene (ATP-binding cassette, sub-family B (MDR/TAP), member 4) is located on chromosome 7q21.1.
The membrane-associated protein encoded by this gene is a member of the superfamily of ATP-binding cassette (ABC) transporters.
ABC proteins transport various molecules across extra- and intra-cellular membranes.
ABC genes are divided into seven distinct subfamilies (ABC1, MDR/TAP, MRP, ALD, OABP, GCN20, White).
This protein is a member of the MDR/TAP subfamily.
Members of the MDR/TAP subfamily are involved in multidrug resistance as well as antigen presentation.
This gene encodes a full transporter and member of the p-glycoprotein family of membrane proteins with phosphatidylcholine as its substrate.
The function of this protein has not yet been determined; however, it may involve transport of phospholipids from liver hepatocytes into bile.
Alternative splicing of this gene results in several products of undetermined function.
3-(4-fluorobenzoyl) propionic acid (FBPA) is one of the metabolites of the antipsychotic medication haloperidol, a dopamine D2 receptor blocker used to treat a variety of disorders including schizophrenia.
Haloperidol has several metabolic pathways.
The primary one is glucuronidation, which accounts for approximately 50% of its metabolism; another 25% is reduced.
The remainder undergoes different types of oxidation, including N-alkylation, which splits the haloperidol molecule into FBPA and 4-(4-Chlorophenyl)-4-hydroxypiperidine (CPHP).
The complement system is a key part of the immune system and inflammatory response.
The system has three pathways: 1) the classic pathway, 2) the alternative pathway, and 3) the lectin activation pathway.
Complement C3 is involved in the activation of both the classical and alternate complement pathways.
It is the most concentrated of the complement members and is composed of 5 subunits: C3a, C3b, C3c, C3d and C3 d. Decreased levels of C3 is associated with disease inactivation in systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) and may also be associated with acute glomerulonephritis, immune complex disease, septic shock, and end-stage liver disease.
Complement tests measure either the quantity or the activity (function) of complement proteins.
In some cases, complement proteins are present but not functional, in which case a functional assay is used to detect the deficiency.
1,2,4-Trichlorobenzene is an organic compound used as a solvent, and is one of the best known solvents used to dissolve fullerenes and pentacene.
It is a benzene derivative with three chlorine atoms substitutents, in the 1, 2 and 4 positions of the benzene ring.
Auer rods are clumps of azurophilic granular material that form elongated needles and can be seen in the cytoplasm of leukemic blasts under microscopic examination.
They are composed of fused lysosomes and contain peroxidase, lysosomal enzymes, and large crystalline inclusions.
Auer rods are classically seen in myeloid blasts of M1, M2, M3, and M4 acute leukemias.
They are also used to distinguish the pre-leukemia myelodysplastic syndromes: refractory anemia with excess blasts 2 (which has Auer rods) from RAEB 1 (which does not).
The ITPA gene on chromosome 20q13 encodes the protein inosine triphosphate pyrophosphatase, which hydrolyzes inosine triphosphate (ITP) and deoxyinosine triphosphate.
Variants in the ITPA gene lead to inosine triphosphate pyrophosphatase deficiency (ITPAD),which is characterized by the abnormal accumulation of ITP in erythrocytes.
The accumulation of ITP can be beneficial in that it can substitute for guanosine triphosphate (GTP) in a reaction that leads to ATP production.
ITPA gene polymorphisms have been associated with anemia in patients with Hepatitis C who are on antiviral therapy with pegylated-interferon (PEG-IFN) and ribivarin (RBV).
For rs1127354 (ITPA gene g.9330C>A), patients with the wild type CC genotype were more likely to develop anemia and had faster declines in hemoglobin compared to those with C/A or A/A genotypes.
Similarly, patients with the wild type AA genotype at rs7270101 (ITPA gene g.9381A>C) were more likely to experience a drop in hemoglobin compared to those with the A/C or C/C genotypes.
Manganese is a mineral that is found in several foods including nuts, legumes, seeds, tea, whole grains, and leafy green vegetables.
It is considered an essential nutrient, because the body requires it to function properly.
C-C motif chemokine ligand 2 (CCL2), also known as monocyte chemoattractant protein 1 (MCP-1), is a chemokine that is produced by a number of cell types including endothelial, fibroblasts, epithelial, smooth muscle, mesangial, astrocytic, monocytic, and microglial cells.
MCP-1 secretion leads to the selective recruitment of monocytes, neutrophils, and lymphocytes.
MCP-1 modulates the movement and infiltration of monocytes, memory T lymphocytes, and natural killer cells where they monitor normal immunological processes, respond to inflammation, and eliminate viral infections.
In addition to the homeostatic role of MCP-1, it is also implicated in a number of disease processes including multiple sclerosis, cardiovascular disease, cancer, rheumatoid arthritis, and more.
It is also thought to be a potential therapeutic target for treating prostate cancer.
White bean (the beans actually range in color from pale green to creamy white) is a term given to varieties of beans that have light-colored seeds.
They are less robust in flavour than the Green bean and Red kidney bean, but in some countries they are a staple food.
There are several varieties of White beans, each tending to be used in different dishes.
For example, White beans may be used as "Haricot beans" in stews, or as canned baked beans.
White bean may uncommonly induce symptoms of food allergy in sensitised individuals.
The outer layer of the adrenal gland.
It is derived from MESODERM and comprised of three zones (outer ZONA GLOMERULOSA, middle ZONA FASCICULATA, and inner ZONA RETICULARIS) with each producing various steroids preferentially, such as ALDOSTERONE; HYDROCORTISONE; DEHYDROEPIANDROSTERONE; and ANDROSTENEDIONE.
Adrenal cortex function is regulated by pituitary ADRENOCORTICOTROPIN.
Direct or indirect contact with animal allergens may cause sensitisation.
Deer are ruminant mammals of the family Cervidae, native to most areas of the world outside of Australia, Africa south of the Sahara, and Antarctica, and now introduced almost worldwide.
Widely divergent types are the tiny Andean Pudu, Elk, Caribou, Moose and Reindeer.
A mitochondrial enzyme found in a wide variety of cells and tissues.
It is the final enzyme in the 8-enzyme biosynthetic pathway of HEME.
Ferrochelatase catalyzes ferrous insertion into protoporphyrin IX to form protoheme or heme.
Deficiency in this enzyme results in ERYTHROPOIETIC PROTOPORPHYRIA.
Mean platelet component concentration (MPC) is linearly related to platelet density (granularity) and is reduced when platelets degranulate, signifying that platelets have undergone activation and correlating with CD62P expression on the platelet membrane.
This platelet parameter is a potentially simple and early screening indicator of acute phase platelet activation, and may be useful for monitoring patients with atherothrombosis and/or cardiovascular events.
MPC is affected by time and storage conditions in standard anticoagulants based on EDTA.
Aminoacyl-tRNA synthetases (ARS) are enzymes that link amino acids to tRNA molecules and therefore play a key role in protein synthesis.
Each ARS is specific for a single amino acid.
Autoantibodies to ARS are a hallmark of connective tissue diseases including anti-synthetase syndrome (ASS) and idiopathic inflammatory myopathies such as polymyositis (PM) and dermatomyositis (DM).
ASS, PM and DM have overlapping features, including myositis, arthralgia, skin manifestations and interstitial lung disease.
Antibodies to several specific ARS enzymes have been identified, including anti-histidyl (anti-Jo-1), anti-threonyl (anti-PL-7), anti-alanyl (anti-PL-12), anti-glycyl (anti-Ej), anti-isoleucyl (anti-Oj), anti-asparaginyl (anti-Ks), anti-phenylalanyl (anti-Zo), and anti-tyrosyl (anti-Ha).
Different antibodies or patterns of antibodies have been associated with specific clinical features.
Anti-Jo-1, anti-Ej, and anti-PL-7 antibodies are associated with myositis, including classic DM, clinically amyopathic DM (CADM) and PM.
Anti-PL-12 alone is associated with CADM or interstitial lung disease (ILD).
Anti-Ej and anti-PL-12 together are associated with CADM.
Anti-Ks and anti-Oj are associated with ILD alone.
Anti-Ha and anti-Zo antibodies are the most recent autoantibodies to be identified in patients with symptoms of ASS.
Identifying the particular anti-ARS antibodies associated with an individual patient's disease may help guide treatment and predict clinical outcomes.
Fatty acids with 22 or more carbon atoms are called very long chain fatty acids (VLCFAs) and are present in small amounts in most tissues.
Unlike most fatty acids, VLCFAs are too long to be metabolized in the mitochondria.
Very long chain fatty acids and the ratios of C24/C22 and C26/C22 are increased in conditions affecting peroxisomal fatty acid metabolism such as X-linked Adrenoleukodystrophy (X-ALD), Zellweger Syndrome, and to some extent in rhizomelic chondrodysplasia punctata (RCDP).
The amount of dairy-based foods consumed, where a serving is the amount of that food customarily considered a serving.
Factor V gene mutation causes APC resistance and is used as a confirmatory test for abornormal APC resistance.
3-Hydroxydodecenoylcarnitine is a primary marker for Very long-chain acyl-CoA dehydrogenase deficiency.
Reticulocytes are immature red blood cells, typically composing about 1% of the red cells in the human body.
Reticulocytes develop and mature in the red bone marrow and then circulate for about a day in the blood stream before developing into mature red blood cells.
Like mature red blood cells, reticulocytes do not have a cell nucleus.
They are called reticulocytes because of a reticular (mesh-like) network of ribosomal RNA that becomes visible under a microscope with certain stains such as new methylene blue.
Acetaldehyde, sometimes known as ethanal, is an organic chemical compound with the formula C H 3 CHO or MeCHO.
It is is a flammable liquid with a fruity smell.
Acetaldehyde occurs naturally in ripe fruit, coffee, and fresh bread and is produced by plants as part of their normal metabolism.
It is probably best known as the chemical that causes hangovers.
In the chemical industry, acetaldehyde is used as an intermediate in the production of acetic acid, certain esters, and a number of other chemicals.
In 1989, US production stood at 740 million pounds (336,000 t).
Methemoglobin is a form of the oxygen-carrying protein hemoglobin, in which the iron in the heme group is in the Fe3+ state, not the Fe2+ of normal hemoglobin.
Metheomglobin appears blue and is unable to carry oxygen.
The NADH-dependent enzyme methemoglobin reductase (AKA diaphorase I) is responsible for converting methemoglobin back to hemoglobin.
Normally 1-2% of people's hemoglobin is methemoglobin, a higher percentage than this can be genetic or caused by exposure to various chemicals and depending on the level can cause health problems.
A higher level of methemoglobin will tend to cause a pulse oximeter to read closer to 85% regardless of the true level of oxygen saturation.
Methemoglobinemia can be caused by genetic abnormalities such as diaphorase
I deficiency, or abnormal hemoglobin variants.
It can also be caused by certain oxidizing drugs (benzocaine), antibiotics (trimethoprim or sulfanamides), analine dyes, metoclopramide, chlorates, bromates, and nitrates.
Infants under 6 months are particularly susceptible when exposed to nitrates, benzocaine, or even dehydration.
Methemoglobinemia can be treated with supplemental oxygen and methylene blue.
Cytochrome P450-2D6 (CYP2D6;), a member of the cytochrome P450 mixed-function oxidase system, is involved in the metabolism approximately 25% of drugs in current clinical use.
Tumor necrosis factor receptor superfamily member 1A is a protein encoded by the TNFRS1A gene.
The protein is a member of the tumor necrosis factor receptor superfamily, which also contains TNFRSF1B.
TNFRS1A protein is one of the major receptors for the tumor necrosis factor-alpha.
This receptor can activate the transcription factor NF-κB, mediate apoptosis, and function as a regulator of inflammation.
Elevated serum levels of TNFRSF1A are associated with schizophrenia, bipolar disorder, cognitive impairment and dementia.
Germline mutations of the extracellular domains of this receptor are associated with tumor necrosis factor associated periodic syndrome (TRAPS) or periodic fever syndrome.
Mutations in the TNFRSF1A gene are also associated with elevated risk of multiple sclerosis.
A glycogen branching enzyme is an enzyme that takes part in converting glucose to glycogen.
It adds branches to the growing glycogen molecule.
A defect in this enzyme can lead to disease; see glycogen storage disease type IV and glycogen-branching enzyme deficiency.
Brucellosis (Undulant fever or Malta fever) is an infectious disease caused by the Brucella bacteria.
Celery is a herbaceous edible biennial plant in the family Apiaceae.
It is native to the coasts of western and northern Europe, and of the Middle East.
It was used by the ancient Greeks and Romans as a flavouring.
The ancient Chinese used it as a medicine.
Celery can cause oral symptoms (aphthae, stomatitis, swelling of the lips or tongue, pharyngitis, hoarseness and laryngeal oedema) and can often also induce acute generalised symptoms, such as severe laryngeal oedema, bronchial asthma, urticaria or allergic shock.
Oral allergy syndrome has been documented (35,107), and the symptoms have been reported to be more marked in severity compared to reactions to other vegetables.
Species within groups of fish, like Gadiformes (examples: codfish and hake) and Scombroid fish (examples: mackerel and tuna) seem to share allergenic components.
The overlap of allergen specificity between the groups seems to be moderate or even small.
Specific IgE antibodies have been measured in atopic dermatitis patients, and in food-allergic children.
The clinical sensitivity and specificity of f254 Plaice was reported to be 86% and 94% respectively (4).
Anti-sulfatide autoantibodies, also known as anti-GalS, have been associated with a variety of nervous system disorders, including IgM paraproteinaemia with associated demyelinating neuropathy, sensory impairment, and inflammatory demyelinating polyneuropathy (IDPN).
Studies have shown the presence of GalS on the external surface of the myelin sheath, which suggests that anti-GalS auto-antibodies can induce immune demyelination and may play a role in the pathogenesis of motor neuropathies such as Guillain-Barre syndrome (GBS), and in fact, over 60% of GBS patients have been found to have anti-GalS antibodies.
Some data show that patients presenting with high titer of anti-GalS antibodies could benefit from early treatment with plasmapheresis and/or intravenous immunoglobulin.
The anterior angle formed by the Sella-Nasion plane and the Mandibular plane, using Menton (Constructed Gonion-Menton)
2,4-Dichlorophenol (2,4-DCP) is a chlorinated derivative of phenol with the molecular formula C6H4Cl2O. 2,4-DCP is used primarily as intermediate in the preparation of the herbicide 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D).
Annual worldwide production is estimated at 88 million pounds.
Liquid (molten) 2,4-DCP is readily absorbed through the skin and contact with large amounts may be fatal.
13272Solid 2,4-DCP does not readily absorb through skin and has a lower NFPA H=3 rating (versus H=4 for molten 2,4-DCP).
This is primarily caused by instantaneous renal failure, liver damage and various other organ failure.
Amount of fluid or beverage intake consumed orally by an individual patient.
Drugs used to prevent SEIZURES or reduce their severity.
RCS-4 is a synthetic cannabis compound.
Synthetic cannabinoids and their metabolites are psychoactive designer drugs derived of natural herbs sprayed with synthetic chemicals that, when consumed, allegedly mimic the pleasurable effects of cannabis.
Disopyramide (INN, trade names Norpace® and Rythmodan®) is an antiarrhythmic medication.
It is a Class Ia antiarrythmic used in the treatment of ventricular tachycardias.
It has no effect on alpha or beta adrenergic receptors.
When a timed incubation step is required in laboratory specimen processing, this is a record of the actual incubation period (start and stop date and time range) to validate that the specimen is satisfactory for testing.
Norhydrocodone is a metabolite of hydrocodone, a narcotic analgesic related to codeine, but more potent and more addicting by weight.
It is used also as cough suppressant.
Drug testing of pain patients provides objective information to health specialists regarding patient compliance, diversion, and concurrent illicit drug use.
The interpretation of test results can be difficult however because of complex biotransformations of parent drug to metabolites that are also available commercially and may be abused.
Additional testing for normetabolites, such as norhydrocodone, provides conclusive evidence that the parent drug was consumed and is helpful in interpreting the opiate drug source, and also reduces potential false negatives.
Soy protein is protein made from soybean meal that has been dehulled and defatted.
Soybeans are processed into three kinds of high protein commercial products : soy flour, concentrates, and isolates.
Soy protein isolate has been used since 1959 in foods for its functional properties.
Recently, soy protein popularity has increased due to its use in health food products.
Soybeans contain a small but newly very significant 2S Albumin storage protein.
Legume proteins, such as soy and pulses, belong to the globulin family of seed storage proteins called legumin and vicilins, or in the case of soybeans, glycinin and beta-conglycinin.
Soybeans also contain biologically active or metabolic proteins, such as enzymes, trypsin inhibitors, hemagglutinins, and cysteine proteases very similar to papain.
NCF1 gene encodes the neutrophil cytosolic factor 1 (NCF1) protein.
NCF1 is a subunit of a group of proteins that comprise the enzyme NADPH oxidase.
NADPH plays an important role in regulating neutrophil activity and in helping phagocytes neutralize bacteria and fungi.
In addition, NADPH helps moderate the inflammatory response that may otherwise cause excessive damage to the body.
When microorganisms infect the body, they stimulate phagocytes to assemble NADPH oxidase, which is critical to the chemical reaction that converts oxygen to a superoxide.
The superoxide is instrumental in producing antibiotic chemicals including hydrogen peroxide and hypochlorous acid.
Mutations in the NCF1 gene affect NCF1 protein production and/or function, which prevents the assembly and function of NADPH.
Twenty-five percent patients with chronic granulomatous disease have mutations in the NCF1 gene, and NCF1 deletions are associated with Williams syndrom.
Antibiotic produced by Micromonospora inyoensis.
It is closely related to gentamicin C1A, one of the components of the gentamicin complex (GENTAMICINS).
2,3-Dinor-11beta-prostaglandin F2 alpha (2,3-BPG) is a metabolic product of prostaglandins released by activated mast cells.
Accumulation of mast cells in peripheral tissue is associated with a mast cell activation disease (MCAD), including systemic mastocytosis (SM).
Degranulation of mast cells releases large amounts of histamines, prostaglandins (including 2,3-BPG), leukotrienes, and tryptase.
Quantitation of 2,3 BPG levels along with leukotriene E4 (LTE4) and N-methyl histamine (NMH) are used for the screening of SM.
Oxygen content is a component of a blood gas analysis test that helps to evaluate acid-base balance, gas exchange, and voluntary respiratory control.
In the blood gas analysis test, blood is drawn from an artery and analyzed in the lab for pH, partial pressure of carbon dioxide, partial pressure of oxygen, bicarbonate content per 100 mL of blood, oxygen saturation, and oxygen content.
Oxygen content is the sum of the oxygen that is combined with hemoglobin and the oxygen dissolved in the plasma.
The calculation for oxygen content is the following: arterial oxygen content = (Hgb x 1.36)(Oxygen saturation/100)+(partial pressure of oxygen x 0.0031).
A normoblast is an immature, nucleated erythrocyte that still retains a cell nucleus.
It is the immediate precursor of a normal erythrocyte.
The term normoblast is sometimes used as a synonym for erythroblast, but at other times it is considered a subcategory.
In the latter context, there are two types of erythroblasts: 1) "normoblasts" develop as expected and 2) "megaloblasts" are unusually large erythroblasts that can be associated with pernicious anemia and folic acid deficiency (collectively called megaloblastic anemia).
Sensitivity to Octopus is common in southern Europe.
Didesmethylescitalopram is an active metabolite of the antidepressant escitalopram, the S-enantiomer of citalopram.
Like citalopram and escitalopram, didesmethyl(es)citalopram functions as a selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor (SSRI), and is responsible for some of its parents' therapeutic benefits.
Aldicarb sulfone is a break down product of aldicarb.
Aldicarb is a commercial pesticide that functions as an cholinesterase inhibitor in humans and can cause death or long term health effects.
Clobenzorex (Asenlix, Dinintel, Finedal, Rexigen) is a stimulant drug of the phenethylamine and amphetamine chemical classes used as an appetite suppressant.
Mutations in the FARS2 gene are associated with combined oxidative phosphorylation deficiency 14 (COXPD14), a severe multisystemic autosomal recessive disorder characterized by neonatal onset of global developmental delay, refractory seizures, and lactic acidosis.
The anterior chamber is demarcated by the cornea anteriorly and the iris posteriorly.
Examination of the anterior chamber includes the depth of the anterior chamber as well as the presence of cells, pigment or protein (flare) in the aqueous humor.
Glutethimide is a hypnotic sedative that was introduced as a safe alternative to barbiturates to treat insomnia, however, it had become clear that glutethimide was just as likely to cause addiction and caused similarly severe withdrawal symptoms..
Doriden is the brand-name version of the drug, which is rarely prescribed today.
A member of the hibiscus family, okra is a tropical annual that gets 1-3 m tall, has large lobed leaved, and bears yellow flowers that give rise to the familiar okra pods so valued in Cajun gumbos.
The large lobed leaves are slightly spiny and the plant has a thick, semiwoody stem with few branches.
The flowers are hibiscus-like with pale yellow or cream colored petals and purplish hearts.
Okra blooms and produces over an extended season, usually until first frost
Hydrogen breath test using fructose is performed to diagnose a fructose malabsorption.
A pre dose reading of hydrogen levels is collected.
The patient is then given a small amount of fructose, and then required to take readings every 15, 30 or 60 minutes for two to three hours.
The basis of the test is a failure to absorb the given sugar, which is then metabolized by bacteria that give off either hydrogen or methane.
Therefore, the more gas that is produced, the less absorption has occurred.
If the level of hydrogen rises above 20 ppm (parts per million) over the lowest preceding value within the test period, the patient is typically diagnosed as a fructose malabsorber.
If the patient produces methane then the parts per million for the methane typically rises 12 ppm over the lowest preceding value to be considered positive.
If the patient produces both hydrogen and methane then the values are typically added together and the mean of the numbers is used to determine positive results, usually 15 ppm over the lowest preceding value.
Chromosome region 14q11 is the site of the T-cell receptor (TCR) gene alpha/delta locus.
Chromosomal translocations involving various TCR loci are a hallmark of T-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemias (T-ALLs), and rearrangements specifically involving the TCR alpha/delta locus are one of the more common patterns.
T-ALLs occur in both adult and pediatric patients and account for 15-25% of ALLs in both patient populations.
Riboflavin, also known as vitamin B2, is an easily absorbed colored micronutrient with a key role in maintaining health in humans and animals.
It is the central component of the cofactors Flavin mononucleotide (FMN) and flavin adenine dinucleotide (FAD), and is therefore required by all flavoproteins.
As such, vitamin B2 is required for a wide variety of cellular processes.
It plays a key role in energy metabolism, and for the metabolism of fats, ketone bodies, carbohydrates, and proteins.
A deficiency of riboflavin can be primary (poor vitamin sources in one's daily diet) or secondary (e.g. a result of conditions that affect absorption in the intestine, the body not being able to use the vitamin, or an increase in the excretion of the vitamin from the body).
Signs and symptoms of riboflavin deficiency (ariboflavinosis) include cracked and red lips, inflammation of the lining of mouth and tongue, mouth ulcers, cracks at the corners of the mouth (angular cheilitis), and a sore throat.
A deficiency may also cause dry and scaling skin, fluid in the mucous membranes, and iron-deficiency anemia.
The eyes may also become bloodshot, itchy, watery and sensitive to bright light.
Urinary free cortisol is a measurement of the cortisol in the urine that is not attached to other substances.
Free cortisol represents the active form of the hormone.
The urine measurement directly reflects the blood level of cortisol.
In enzymology, a methylenetetrahydrofolate reductase (ferredoxin) is an enzyme that catalyzes the chemical reaction 5-methyltetrahydrofolate + 2 oxidized ferredoxin 5,10-methylenetetrahydrofolate + 2 reduced ferredoxin + 2 H+ Thus, the two substrates of this enzyme are 5-methyltetrahydrofolate and oxidized ferredoxin, whereas its 3 products are 5,10-methylenetetrahydrofolate, reduced ferredoxin, and H+.
This enzyme belongs to the family of oxidoreductases, specifically those acting on the CH-NH group of donors with an iron-sulfur protein as acceptor.
The systematic name of this enzyme class is 5-methyltetrahydrofolate:ferredoxin oxidoreductase.
This enzyme is also called 5,10-methylenetetrahydrofolate reductase.
This enzyme participates in one carbon pool by folate.
The distance from Labrale Superius back to the maxillary central incisor (supradentale)
ADBICA N-4-hydroxypentyl and ADBICA N-pentanoate are metabolites of 5F-ADBICA and ADBICA (N--1-pentyl-1H-indole-3-carboxamide), also known as ADB-PICA, a synthetic cannabinoid that shows high affinity for cannabinoid CB1 and CB2 receptors.
Synthetic cannabinoids interact with the same brain receptors as THC (the active drug present in marijuana) and have been demonstrated to produce similar effects.
The drug is typically sprayed on botanical material and smoked, although it can be ingested in liquid or powder form.
Products containing this drug are sold under a wide variety of names including (but not limited to)
Spice, Potpourri, Smoke, K2, Zombie, Kush, and Cloud 10.
The SLC26A4 gene (solute carrier family 26 (anion exchanger), member 4) is located on chromosome 7q31.
Mutations in this gene are associated with Pendred syndrome, the most common form of syndromic deafness, an autosomal-recessive disease.
It is highly homologous to the SLC26A3 gene; they have similar genomic structures and this gene is located 3' of the SLC26A3 gene.
The encoded protein has homology to sulfate transporters.
Australian pine tree is an evergreen with native habitats typical of Casuarina, from Burma and Vietnam east to French Polynesia, New Caledonia, and Vanuatu, and south to Australia (the northern part of Northern Territory, north and east Queensland, and northeastern New South Wales).
It is also found in India and parts of Africa.
Asthma and rhinitis occur in sensitised individuals.
A thioxanthene with therapeutic actions similar to the phenothiazine antipsychotics.
It is an antagonist at D1 and D2 dopamine receptors.
Angiotensin II is an eight amino acid peptide formed by Angiotensin Converting Enzyme (ACE) cleavage of Angiotensin I. Angiotensin II is metabolized further to Angiotensin III.
Angiotensin II release is controlled by Renin, blood pressure, blood volume, sodium balance and by Aldosterone concentration.
Levels of Angiotensin II are increased in many types of hypertension.
Angiotensin II stimulates the release of Anti-Diuretic Hormone, ACTH, Prolactin, Luteinizing Hormone, Oxytocin and Aldosterone.
Angiotensin II increases vasoconstriction and inhibits tubular resorption of sodium, and can increase endothelial cell growth.
Paritaprevir (previously known as ABT-450) is an inhibitor of the NS3-4A serine protease, and has demonstrated in vitro antiviral activity against several hepatitis C virus (HCV) genotypes, including 1a, 1b, 2a, 3a, 4a, and 6a.
Co-administation with ritonavir, ombitasvir and dasabuvir, referred to as the 3D regimen, has proven effective for the treatment of HCV genotype 1 infection.
The SGSH gene is located on 17q25.3 and encodes N-sulphoglucosamine sulphohydrolase, a lysosomal enzyme that contributes to the lysosomal degradation of heparan sulfate.
A mutation in the SGSH gene is associated with mucopolysaccharidosis type IIIA (MPSIIIA), also known as Sanfilippo syndrome A. MPSIIIA is characterized by severe central nervous system degeneration, and clinical symptoms usually become apparent between ages 2 and 6, with progressive neurologic degeneration between 6 and 10 years of age and death by age 30.
Amprenavir is a Protease Inhibitor (PI) antiretroviral drug used in the treatment of HIV.
Drug resistance reports assist with treatment decisions.
Osteocalcin is a sensitive marker of bone formation and osteoblastic activity.
High levels are seen in patients with renal osteodystrophy, chronic renal failure, hyperthyroidism, Paget's disease, estrogen therapy or metastatic skeletal disease.
Fusobacterium is a genus of anaerobic, Gram-negative, non-sporulating organisms commonly found in oropharyngeal, gastrointestinal and genital tracts.
Within the genus, the two most commonly isolated pathogens in clinical specimens are F. nucleatum (61%) followed by F. necrophorum (25%).
F. necrophorum is the most virulent and may cause severe infections, such as pharyngotonsillitis, jugular vein septic thrombophlebitis, and general sepsis particularly in children and young adults.
Resistance to erythromycin and other macrolides is common in Fusobacterium.
A phenothiazine antipsychotic with effects similar to CHLORPROMAZINE.
Porcine circoviruses (PCV) are small nonenveloped DNA viruses in the Circoviridae family that contain a single-stranded circular genome.
PCV are the smallest viruses replicating autonomously in eukaryotic cells by utilizing the host polymerase for genome amplification.
Two types of PCV have been characterised, PCV1 and PCV2.
PCV1 is nonpathogenic in adult pigs, while PCV2 is a major pathogen..
The primary effect of PCV2 is postweaning multisystemic wasting syndrome (PMWS).
Pigs with PMWS have weakness, difficulty breathing, enlarged lymphnodes, diarrhea, and yellowing of the skin.
Lesions associated with the presence of PCV2 have been found in the lymphatic system, the lungs, liver, kidney, heart, gastrointestinal tract and pancreas.
Co-infection of PCV with porcine parvovirus or porcine reproductive and respiratory syndrome (PRRS) virus enhances PMWS.
Infection of porcine circovirus in humans is non-productive.
Non-antibody proteins secreted by inflammatory leukocytes and some non-leukocytic cells, that act as intercellular mediators.
They differ from classical hormones in that they are produced by a number of tissue or cell types rather than by specialized glands.
They generally act locally in a paracrine or autocrine rather than endocrine manner.
Stachybotrys atra Corda Stachybotrys alternans Stilbospora chartarum Ehrenberg Stachybotrys chartarum originally described from the wall of a house in Prague in 1837 by Czech mycologist August Carl Joseph Corda (obsolete: Stachybotrys alternans and Stachybotrys atra) is a greenish-black mold that is commonly found outdoors and sometimes found in damp or flooded homes.
It requires constant moisture in order to grow.
Health problems related to this mold have been documented in humans and animals since the 1930s (and it is even considered a likely candidate for the Biblical condition mistranslated as leprosy, tzaraath).
More recently, S. chartarum has been linked with so-called sick building syndrome.
However, the link has not been firmly established in the scientific literature.
17-Hydroxypregnenolone (also 17-OH-pregnenolone and 17-alpha-hydroxypregnenolone), is a C21 steroid that is obtained by hydroxylation of pregnenolone at the C17-alpha position.
This step is performed by the mitochondrial cytochrome P450 enzyme 17-hydroxylase (CYP17A1) that is present in the adrenal and gonads.
Peak levels are reached in humans at the end of puberty and then decline.
High levels are also achieved during pregnancy.
Measurements of 17-OH-pregnenolone are useful in the diagnosis of certain forms of congenital adrenal hyperplasia.
In patients with congenital adrenal hyperplasia due to 3 beta-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase deficiency 17-OH-pregnenolone is increased, while in patients with congenital adrenal hyperplasia due to 17 alpha-hydroxylase deficiency levels are low to absent.
Measurements of 17-OH-pregnenolone are useful in the diagnosis of certain forms of congenital adrenal hyperplasia.
In patients with congenital adrenal hyperplasia due to 3 beta-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase deficiency 17-OH-pregnenolone is increased, while in patients with congenital adrenal hyperplasia due to 17 alpha-hydroxylase deficiency levels are low to absent.
A spice, which may result in allergy symptoms in sensitised individuals.
Probably native to southern Europe or Asia Minor, Coriander was cultivated in ancient China, Egypt, Greece and Rome for culinary and medicinal uses, and is one of the oldest spices on record.
Coriander may occasionally induce symptoms of food or skin allergy in sensitised individuals
House Rats comprise two species, Rattus norvegicus, the Brown or Norway Rat, and Rattus Rattus, the Black or Alexandrine Rat.
Rat allergens found in dust, urine, epithelium and saliva are a frequent cause of asthma, allergic rhinitis and allergic conjunctivitis, mainly in laboratory workers but also in ordinary individuals.
A highly chlorinated polycyclic hydrocarbon insecticide whose large number of chlorine atoms makes it resistant to degradation.
It has been shown to be toxic to mammals and causes abnormal cellular changes in laboratory animals.
Vitamin B12 (cobalamin) is bound to 2 proteins in plasma, transcobalamin I (TC-1, sometimes called haptocorrin) and transcobalamin II (TC-II, called transcobalamin by those who use the term haptocorrin for transcobalamin I).
TC-II saturated with vitamin B12 is known as holo-transcobalamin II (holo-TC-II) or "active" vitamin B12, which can be delivered into all DNA-synthesizing cells.
Vitamin B12 bound to TC-1 (hapatocorrin) is unavailable in our metabolism.
Apo-transcobalamin I and II (apo-TC-II and apo-TC-II) are unsaturated with vitamin b12.
They play a role in the enterohepatic (re)cycling of cobalamin and are measured to diagnose the cause of a deficiency in B12.
Flualprazolam is a benzodiazepine that is structurally related to the triazolobenzodiazepine, alprazolam.
It is thought to possess central nervous system effects similar to other known Schedule IV benzodiazepines and is used as an illicit drug.
Ethanol (C2H6O), also known as ethyl alcohol or grain alcohol, is a flammable, colorless, mildly toxic chemical compound with a distinctive perfume-like odor.
It is the alcohol found in alcoholic beverages
"Other cells" refer to cells that are present in blood or body fluid that are not classified elsewhere in the report.
The type of cells will vary depending on the method or instrument used.
Perazine (brand name: Taxilan) is a phenothiazine antipsychotic and used for the treatment of schizophrenia.
It is similar to chlorpromazine and acts as a dopamine antagonist.
The sensory conduction velocity is the speed at which a nerve impulse travels and is calculated based on the distance between the stimulation and recording sides and the latency.
The conduction velocity is affected by temperature, which is why it is important to monitor and maintain optimal limb temperature during the study.
Bacterial vaginosis (BV) is the most common vaginal infection, occurring when there is an overgrowth of anaerobic bacteria in the vagina.
BV infections are complex and polymicrobial, involving multiple species of bacteria, including Megasphaera species Type 1 (Mega1), Atopobium vaginae, and Bacterial Vaginosis Associated Bacterium 2 (BVAB2), which can grow in excess and cause vaginal irritation.
BVAB2 is originally identified by 16S ribosomal sequences from vaginal flora of women with BV (as being in the order Clostridialis).
Tests such as the prothrombin time (PT) and activated prothromin time (aPTT) can predict bleeding or be used for haemostasis management, but it is difficult to determine which part of the intrinsic or extrinsic pathway is disrupted in an individual.
Since these tests are performed on platelet-poor plasma, they do not provide a true representation of the physiological clotting process so they do no provide adequate information on either clot formation over time or fibrinolysis.
(Young et al, 2013).
Clotting time (CT) is the time for a clot to reach an amplitude of 2 mm.
Clot formation time (CFT) is the time for clot firmness to incease from 2mm (CT) to 20 mm.
A prolonged CFT is usually caused by poor platelet function, low platelet count, fibrin polymerization disorders or fibrinogen deficiency.
Higher concentrations of heparin can also prolong CFT in the INTEM assay, but not in HEPTEM, EXTEM, FIBTEM or APTEM.
A low CFT indicates hypercoagulability.
Platelet aggregation evaluates the functional integrity of platelets.
Test agents for stimulation include ADP, collagen, epinephrine, ristocetin, thrombin and arachidonic acid.
Different abnormalities are detected by evaluating the response to these stimulators.
Studies are usually performed after screening tests (platelet count, PT, PTT, vWD workup) for bleeding disorders are found normal.
The RARA gene (retinoic acid receptor, alpha) is located on chromosome 17q21.
This gene represents a nuclear retinoic acid receptor.
The encoded protein, retinoic acid receptor alpha, regulates transcription in a ligand-dependent manner.
This gene has been implicated in regulation of development, differentiation, apoptosis, granulopoeisis, and transcription of clock genes.
Translocations between this locus and several other loci have been associated with acute promyelocytic leukemia.
Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been found for this locus.
3,4-Dimethylmethcathinone (3,4-DMMC) and 4-Methylethcathinone (4-MEC) are synthetic cathinones categorized as designer drugs or substances of abuse.
Their chemical structure resembles the stimulant mephedrone.
Their effects on the body are similar to phenethylamine, amphetamine, and the cathinone class.
They are mainly used for social purposes but are also used for their stimulant properties.
Effects of synthetic cathinones depend on the individual, the dosage of drug administered and the route of administration but the primary effects which make them attractive to users are increased alertness, sociability, effectiveness in work, euphoria, intense physical and sensory pleasure and a decreased appetite.
The standard practice of insufflation combined with ingestion causes immediate and sustained intoxication.
The most common adverse effects are cardiac and neurologic.
The androgen receptor (AR), also known as NR3C4 (nuclear receptor subfamily 3, group C, member 4), is a type of nuclear receptor which is activated by binding of either of the androgenic hormones testosterone or dihydrotestosterone in the cytoplasm and then translocating into the nucleus.
The androgen receptor is most closely related to the progesterone receptor, and progestins in higher dosages can block the androgen receptor.
The main function of the androgen receptor is as a DNA binding transcription factor which regulates gene expression; however, the androgen receptor has other functions as well.
Androgen regulated genes are critical for the development and maintenance of the male sexual phenotype.
Recombinant non-glycosylated protein produced in an E. coli strain carrying a cloned cDNA encoding Felis domesticus allergen Fel d 1.
Fel d 1 is found in Cat hair, dander and saliva.
Although more than 12 allergens have been identified in Cat, Fel d 1 (27-38) is the most important, eliciting IgE responses in 80% to 90% of patients with Cat allergy and accounting for 60% to 90% of the total allergenic activity of Cat extracts.
The Leu265Pro mutation in the myeloid differentiation primary response 88 (MYD88) gene is found in approximately 90% of patients with lymphoplasmacytic lymphoma (LPL) and Waldenstrom macroglobulinemia (WM), a type of non-Hodgkin's lymphoma.
Testing for this mutation can be useful in differentiating WM and LPL cases from B-cell disorders that have phenotypic overlap.
The Interleukins belong to the family termed cytokines.
They are peptides used by immune and inflammatory cells to communicate and control cell operations.
The cytokines have some similar actions to the Growth Factors but Growth Factors regulate proliferation of non-immune cells.
Interleukin 6 is a 25,000 molecular weight glycoprotein produced primarily in macrophages, T cells, fibroblasts and endothelial cells.
Its primary target cells are T and B cells and neutrophils.
Its main actions are involvement in terminal differentiation of B cells to antibody secreting plasma cells, activation of T cells and stimulation of hepatocyte production of acute phase proteins.
Interleukin stimulates Prolactin, Growth Hormone, Luteinizing Hormone, Follicle Stimulating Hormone and ACTH.
Release is stimulated by Interleukin 1a and b, Vasoactive Intestinal Polypeptide, and Prostaglandin E2.
Release is not affected by aspirin or indomethacin.
Levels are elevated in multiple myeloma, rheumatoid arthritis, systemic lupus erythematosus, meningococcus meningitis and infectious peritonitis.
Cryptococcus gattii, formerly known as Cryptococcus neoformans var gattii, is a fungus that lives in the environment in primarily tropical and sub-tropical areas of the world but also in some parts of the United States and British Columbia.
C. gattii cryptococcosis, a rare infection that people can get after breathing in the microscopic fungus, affects the lungs and central nervous system .
A genus of PASTEURELLACEAE described as gram-negative, nonsporeforming, nonmotile, facultative anaerobes.
Most members are found both as pathogens and commensal organisms in the respiratory, alimentary, and genital tracts of animals.
Nicotine is an alkaloid of the nightshade family of plants (Solanaceae), found predominantly in tobacco, and in lower quantities in tomato, potato, eggplant and green pepper.
Nicotine alkaloids are also found in the leaves of the coca plant.
It constitutes 0.3 to 5% of the tobacco plant by dry weight, with biosynthesis taking place in the roots, and accumulates in the leaves.
It is a potent neurotoxin and is included in many insecticides.
In lower concentrations, the substance acts as a stimulant and is one of the main factors responsible for the dependence-forming properties of tobacco smoking.
Homocitrulline is a primary marker for Hyperornithinemia-Hyperammonemia-Homocitrullinuria.
Secondary marker for Short-chain L-3-hydroxy acyl-CoA dehydrogenase deficiency.
Maprotiline (drug class tetracyclic antidepressants) is used to treat depression, bipolar disorder, and anxiety.
Normaprotiline is the major metabolite of maprotiline.
3-Hydroxybenzoic acid is produced in the gut microflora as one of the three main metabolites formed from the catechin diet.
Its use in the production of glycol benzoates for the application of plasticizer in adhesive formulations is increasing.
It is also used in the manufacture of alkyd resins and drilling mud additive for crude oil recovery applications.
It is used as a rubber polymerization activator and retardant.
Plasmid-mediated IMP-type carbapenemases are currently known to have 17 varieties.
Studies have revealed its establishment in Japan in the 1990s in enteric Gram-negative organisms, Pseudomonas species and Acinetobacter species.
IMP genes usually co-exist with other resistance genes resulting in multi-drug resistance.
Studies have shown that a high percentage of patients with immunodeficiency and drug resistant nosocomial infections are infected with a VIM or IMP producing organism, particularly when the organism identified is pseudomonas aeruginosa.
The two genes are often present together although they can also be present individually.
Identifying the presence of these genes is important in monitoring drug resistance and determining the best antibiotic therapy methods.
Cutibacterium avidum and granulosum, formerly categorized in the genus Propionibacterium, are opportunistic pathogen associated with a variety of infections, including skin, infective endocarditis, device-related infections, and debrided wounds.
Isavuconazole is an antibiotic developed to fight infections caused by yeasts, molds and other types of fungi.
It is used to treat adult patients with invasive aspergillosis and mucormycosis which are conditions that typically occur in patients who are immunocompromised.
Procalcitonin (PCT) is a precursor of the hormone calcitonin, which is involved with calcium homeostasis, and is produced by the C-cells of the thyroid gland.
It is there that procalcitonin is cleaved into calcitonin, katacalcin and a protein residue.
It is not released into the blood stream of healthy individuals.
With the derangements that a severe infection with an associated systemic response brings, the blood levels of procalcitonin may rise to 100 ng/ml.
In blood serum, procalcitonin has a half-life of 25 to 30 hours.
The TOP2A gene (topoisomerase (DNA) II alpha 170kDa) is located on chromosome 17q21-q22.
This gene encodes a DNA topoisomerase, an enzyme that controls and alters the topologic states of DNA during transcription.
This nuclear enzyme is involved in processes such as chromosome condensation, chromatid separation, and the relief of torsional stress that occurs during DNA transcription and replication.
It catalyzes the transient breaking and rejoining of two strands of duplex DNA which allows the strands to pass through one another, thus altering the topology of DNA.
Two forms of this enzyme exist as likely products of a gene duplication event.
The gene encoding this form, alpha, is localized to chromosome 17 and the beta gene is localized to chromosome 3.
The gene encoding this enzyme functions as the target for several anticancer agents and a variety of mutations in this gene have been associated with the development of drug resistance.
Reduced activity of this enzyme may also play a role in ataxia-telangiectasia.
The mosquito species identified by the environmental testing laboratory for mosquito surveillance programs.
Mosquitos are a vector for several diseases, such as malaria, West Nile, dengue, chikungunya, and Zika virus.
Sensitivity of peak longitudinal strain rate to changes in contractile state and loading conditions using two-dimensional images has been well documented.
Longitudinal peak systolic strain is found to have an inverse relationship with circumferential strain and wall stress.
Using two-dimension strain imaging, a peak systolic longitudinal strain rate predicted significant stenosis with high sensitivity and specificity, suggesting the potential for early diastolic deformation to improve diagnostic accuracy.
Longitudinal strains are reduced in patients with myocardial infarctions, correlate with infarct size and ejection fraction, and predict left ventricular remodeling and clinical events.
Contactin-associated protein 2 (CASPR2) is present in the axons of the granule neurons of the cerebellum and the juxtaparanodal region of myelinated axons.
Increased titers of CASPR2 antibodies were first discovered in patients with Morvan's syndrome.
Symptoms of Morvan's syndrome include neuromyotonia, insomnia, autonomic dysfunction and neuropathic pain.
Though CASPR2 antibodies have been found in 10% of patients with idiopathic cerebellar ataxia, no specific disease has been attributed to patients with the rare occurrence of positive antibodies for CASPR2 with cerebellar involvement.
Syringa vulgaris (Lilac or Common Lilac) is a species of Syringa in the olive family Oleaceae, native to the Balkan Peninsula in southeastern Europe, where it grows on rocky hills
An autosomal recessive genetic disease of the exocrine glands.
It is caused by mutations in the gene encoding the cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator expressed in several organs including the lung, the pancreas, the biliary system, and the sweat glands.
Cystic fibrosis is characterized by epithelial secretory dysfunction associated with ductal obstruction resulting in airway obstruction, chronic respiratory infections, pancreatic insufficiency, maldigestion, salt depletion, and heat prostration.
6-Methylmercaptopurine (6MMP) is a metabolite of thiopurine drugs including including 6-mercatptopurine, thioguanine, and azathioprine.
Levels of 6-methylthioguanine are indicative of thiopurine S-methyltransferase (TPMT) activity.
Histones are small nuclear proteins that together with dsDNA, represent a nucleosome, the structural unit of chromatin.
Anti-histone antibodies are associated with various autoimmune diseases, including systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE), rheumatoid arthritis, Sjogren's syndrome, systemic sclerosis, infectious diseases (including HIV), and some neurological disorders such as Alzheimer's disease and dementia.
Nearly all patients with drug-induced SLE have anti-histone antibodies, but they are also present in patients with idiopathic forms of the disease.
One study showed a correlation between SLE with positive anti-dsDNA, anti-nucleosome and anti-histone antibodies and renal disease, including proliferative glomerulonephritis.
The angler, also sometimes called fishing-frog, frog-fish or sea-devil, Lophius piscatorius, is a monkfish in the family Lophiidae.
It is found in coastal waters of the northeast Atlantic, from the Barents Sea to the Strait of Gibraltar, the Mediterranean and the Black Sea.
The titin protein plays a role in the assembly and functioning of striated muscles by connecting individual microfilaments, and may play a role in chromosome condensation and segregation during mitosis in non-muscle cells.
Myasthenia gravis (MG) is an autoimmune disease mediated by antibodies against the acetylcholine receptor (AChR) in the postsynaptic membrane of the motor end plate, but antibodies against other targets, including titin, also play an important role.
Anti-titin autoantibodies are also a sensitive marker for thymoma, which is often associated with MG, especially in patients with MG who are younger than 60 years old.
The state or province in which the patient was born.
A tree species producing large amounts of pollen, which may induce hayfever, asthma and conjunctivitis in sensitised individuals.
Japanese cypress is an evergreen tree native to Japan and found most frequently in Southern Japan and in Taiwan (though it has been exported to many other temperate regions).
It is a narrow, loosely conical tree with foliage that ranges from deep blue to bright golden-yellow.
Guanosine is a purine nucleoside that can be phosphorylated to become guanosine monophosphate (GMP), cyclic guanosine monophosphate (cGMP), guanosine diphosphate (GDP), and guanosine triphosphate (GTP).
The guanine-based purines play an important role in various biochemical processes such as synthesis of nucleic acids and proteins, muscle contraction, and extracellular signal transduction.
They exert important neuroprotective and neuromodulator roles in the central nervous system, which may be related to inhibition of the glutamatergic neurotransmission activity.
The MET gene (MET proto-oncogene, receptor tyrosine kinase) is located on chromosome 7q31.2.
This gene encodes a member of the receptor tyrosine kinase family of proteins and the product of the proto-oncogene MET.
The encoded preproprotein is proteolytically processed to generate alpha and beta subunits that are linked via disulfide bonds to form the mature receptor.
Further processing of the beta subunit results in the formation of the M10 peptide, which has been shown to reduce lung fibrosis.
Binding of its ligand, hepatocyte growth factor, induces dimerization and activation of the receptor, which plays a role in cellular survival, embryogenesis, and cellular migration and invasion.
Mutations in this gene are associated with papillary renal cell carcinoma, hepatocellular carcinoma, and various head and neck cancers.
Amplification and overexpression of this gene are also associated with multiple human cancers.
A beta-adrenergic antagonist similar in action to PROPRANOLOL.
The levo-isomer is the more active.
Timolol has been proposed as an antihypertensive, antiarrhythmic, antiangina, and antiglaucoma agent.
It is also used in the treatment of MIGRAINE DISORDERS and tremor.
Triethylamine is the chemical compound with the formula N(CH2CH3)3, commonly abbreviated Et3N. It is also abbreviated TEA, yet this abbreviation must be used carefully to avoid confusion with triethanolamine, for which TEA is also a common abbreviation.
It is commonly encountered in organic synthesis probably because it is the simplest symmetrically trisubstituted amine, i.e. a tertiary amine, that is liquid at room temperature.
It possesses a strong fishy odor reminiscent of ammonia.
Diisopropylethylamine (Hünig's base) is a widely used relative of triethylamine.
Triethylamine is also the smell of the hawthorn plant.
Alpha amniobutyric acid (AABA), also known as Alpha-amino-N-butyric acid (A-ANB), is an intermediate formed during the catabolism of methionine and threonine.
Increases in AABA occur secondary to elevations of either methionine or threonine.
AABA becomes propionic acid via alpha-ketobutyric acid in the presence of adequate amounts of thiamin, vitamin B2(as FAD), vitamin B3(as NAD), lipoic acid and magnesium.
Deficiencies of any of these, or vitamin B6, could cause increases in AABA.
Elevated or decreased levels of the amino acid may indicate a congenital enzyme defect.
Lopinavir (ABT-378) is an antiretroviral of the protease inhibitor class.
It is marketed by Abbott as Kaletra (high-income countries) and Aluvia (low-income countries), both of which represent a co-formulation with a sub-therapeutic dose of ritonavir, as a component of combination therapy to treat HIV/AIDS.
MPL S505N mutation is usually detected in patients with familial essential thrombocythemia.
Interleukin 12 (IL-12) is an interleukin that is naturally produced by dendritic cells, macrophages and human B-lymphoblastoid cells (NC-37) in response to antigenic stimulation.
IL-12 is linked with autoimmunity.
Glycylproline is an end product of collagen metabolism that is further cleaved by prolidase ; the resulting proline molecules are recycled into collagen or other proteins.
Prolidase deficiency is a rare autosomal recessive disease characterized by chronic ulcerative dermatitis, mental retardation, frequent infections and massive urinary excretion of iminodipeptides.
The disease has been confirmed to be due to hereditary prolidase deficiency.
It has been reported that the activity of the enzyme against glycylproline (Gly-Pro) is almost totally deficient in patients with prolidase deficiency, whereas the activity against other substrates is not so deficient.
Some patients with prolidase deficiency have a marked urinary excretion of the iminodipeptide Glycylproline.
The urine from patients with pressure sores contains significantly more Glycylproline than the urine from the control.
Mesityl oxide is a α,β-Unsaturated ketone with the formula CH3C(O)CH=C(CH3)2.
This compound is a colorless, volatile liquid with a strong peppermint odor.
The U.S Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) defines a pesticide as any substance or mixture of substances intended for preventing, destroying, repelling, or mitigating any pest.
A pesticide may be a chemical substance or biological agent (such as a virus or bacteria) used against pests including insects, plant pathogens, weeds, mollusks, birds, mammals, fish, nematodes (roundworms) and microbes that compete with humans for food, destroy property, spread disease or are a nuisance.
Many pesticides, mainly chemical pesticides, are poisonous to humans.
An isoflavonoid derived from soy products.
It inhibits PROTEIN-TYROSINE KINASE and topoisomerase-II (DNA TOPOISOMERASES, TYPE II); activity and is used as an antineoplastic and antitumor agent.
Experimentally, it has been shown to induce G2 phase arrest in human and murine cell lines.
A boysenberry is a cross between a European Raspberry (Rubus idaeus), a Common Blackberry (Rubus fruticosus), and a Loganberry (Rubus × loganobaccus).
Smith extractable nuclear D (Sm-D) antibodies target Sm-D proteins, which are among the 7 Sm proteins (B/B', D1, D2, D3, E, F, G) that constitute the common core of U1, U2, U4 and U5 small nuclear ribonucleoprotein (snRNP).
SmD is a mixture of D1, D2, and D3.
Of these, D1 and D3 are among those more frequently targeted by Anti-Sm antibodies.
Anti-Sm antibodies are a type of extractable nuclear antigens (ENA) antibodies that cause a variety of autoimmune diseases, including systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE).
Indolelactic acid is a tryptophan metabolite found in human plasma and serum and normal urine.
Tryptophan is metabolized by two major pathways in humans, either through kynurenine or via a series of indoles, and some of its metabolites are known to be biologically active.
Indolelactic acid is present in various amounts, significantly higher in umbilical fetal plasma than in maternal plasma in the protein-bound form., ,, , and .
A commonly occurring abnormal hemoglobin in which lysine replaces a glutamic acid residue at the sixth position of the beta chains.
It results in reduced plasticity of erythrocytes.
Carbohydrate-deficient transferrin (CDT) are transferrin glycoproteins that have decreased or absent sialic acid residues and reduced numbers of oligosaccharide chains.
Transferrin (Tf) normally has two N-linked oligosaccharide chains with two sialic acid residues each, so exists primarily in the tetra-sialo isoform.
Forms of CDT include the tri-sialo form, with three instead of four sialic residues, and di-sialo, with two sialic acid residues.
The hyposialylation or desialylation of transferrin is associated with congenital disorders of glycosylation (CDG), alcohol abuse, fructosemia, and galactosemia.
Tf is the most prevalent and studied glycoprotein, and the evaluation of its isoforms is one of the screening assays used to rule out CDG.
Manifestations of CDG are widely variable and can range from severe retardation with dysmorphic physical features, to mild retardation or no detectable symptoms.
CD53, also known as Cluster of Differentiation 53, is a human gene.
The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the transmembrane 4 superfamily, also known as the tetraspanin family.
Most of these members are cell-surface proteins that are characterized by the presence of four hydrophobic domains.
The proteins mediate signal transduction events that play a role in the regulation of cell development, activation, growth and motility.
This encoded protein is a cell surface glycoprotein that is known to complex with integrins.
It contributes to the transduction of CD2-generated signals in T cells and natural killer cells and has been suggested to play a role in growth regulation.
Familial deficiency of this gene has been linked to an immunodeficiency associated with recurrent infectious diseases caused by bacteria, fungi and viruses.
Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding the same protein.
Molybdenum (atomic symbol Mo) is an essential trace element, required for the enzymes xanthine oxidase, aldehyde oxidase, and nitrate reductase.
It is present in very small amounts in the body.
Molybdenum is thought to be involved in many important biological processes, including development of the nervous system, waste processing in the kidneys, and energy production in cells.
High levels of molybdenum can interfere with the body's uptake of copper, producing copper deficiency.
Molybdenum measurements can be used for assessing nutrition (as in total parenteral nutrition, TPN), molybdenum cofactor deficiency, and following patients with molybdenum-containing prostheses.
Veterinary Medicine: Molybdenum toxicity can occur in cattle or sheep grazing on pastures with alkaline soil or soil contaminated with industrial sources of molybdenum.
Molybdenosis in animals results in secondary copper deficiency and presents with a variety of symptoms, including diarrhea, anemia, anorexia, depigmentation on hair or wool, neurologic abnormalities, impaired reproduction, and premature death.(Mineral Tolerance of Animals: Second Revised Edition, 2005)
Replacement fluid is given during intermittent hemodialysis or continuous renal replacement therapy in order to replace ultrafiltrate fluid loss in excess of the fluid removal goal.
Replacement fluid may be infused into the replacment therapy circuit either before or after the dialysis filter.
Pre-filter replacement has the advantage of reducing the risk of sludging or clogging the filter; however, it has the disadvantage of diluting the solute concentration in the blood and decreasing the efficiency of solute filtration.
Natural killer cells are lymphocytes that identify and lyse tumor cells and cells infected with microbes.
The ability of NK cells to recognize cells as foreign is dependent upon inhibitory and activating receptors on the target cells.
The inhibitory receptors distinguish between normal and tumor or infected cells by the presence or absence of the major histocompatibility complex class I.
The activating receptors are NKp46, NKp30, NKp44 and NKG2D.
In addition to their cytolytic function in the innate immune system, NK cells also function to regulate reciprocal interaction with dendritic cells, macrophages, T cells and endothelial cells and thereby affect immune response.
Patients that experience recurrent severe herpes infections, primary or secondary hemophagocytic lymphohistiocytosis, and suspected or known monogenic defects or patients who have received immune reconstitution post hematopoietic cell transplantation may lack the normal number or functionality of NK cells.
The level of NK cell functionality is determined by various methods, including flow cytometry and chrominum-release assays.
The chromium-release assay uses titrations of effector cells (that are assumed to be NK cells) that are incubated with the target cells.
The level of chromium released by the target cells is then divided by the corrected level of chromium measured in the positive control to assess percent cytotoxicity.
The flow cytometric methods measure cell-mediated immunity, particularly based on uptake of 7-amino-actinomycin D (7-AAD) or propidium iodide (PI) and Annexin V binding, to assess percent cytotoxicity of target cells by effector cells.
Interleukin-2 (IL-2) has been found to increase the reactivity of NK cells against target cells and is used in some NK cell cytotoxicity assays.
Fibrin degradation product (FDPs) are components of the blood produced by clot degeneration.
These are produced by the action of Plasmin on deposited fibrin.
The levels of these FDPs rises after any thrombotic event.
It can be used to test for disseminated intravascular coagulation.
Quazepam (marketed under brand names Doral, Dormalin) is a drug which is a benzodiazepine derivative.
Quazepam is indicated for the treatment of insomnia including sleep induction and sleep maintenance.
Quazepam induces impairment of motor function and has hypnotic and anticonvulsant properties with less overdose potential than other benzodiazepines.
Quazepam is an effective hypnotic which induces and maintains sleep without disruption of the sleep architecture.
Quazepam is a trifluoroethyl type of benzodiazepine.
Quazepam is unique amongst benzodiazepines in that it selectively targets the GABAA type1 receptors which are responsible for inducing sleep.
Its mechanism of action is very similar to zolpidem and zaleplon in its pharmacology and can successfully substitute for zolpidem and zaleplon in animal studies.
Amyloid B-Protein is a peptide that ranges in size from 28-43 amino acids.
Most fragments have the same biological activity as the whole molecule.
Amyloid B-Protein causes vascular and cerebral plaque formation.
Insoluble fibrils of Amyloid B-Protein accumulate in adrenal blood vessels and un neutritic plaques.
Occurrence of plaques are present in normal brain but in a much less dense degree as in Alzheimer's disease patients.
Amyloid B-Protein is also found in elevated levels in patients with Down's Syndrome.
Substance P has been found to counteract the effects of Amyloid B-Protein.
The ETV6 (ETS variant 6) gene is located on chromosome 12 at 12p13.2.
This gene encodes an ETS family transcription factor.
The product of this gene contains two functional domains: a N-terminal pointed (PNT) domain that is involved in protein-protein interactions with itself and other proteins, and a C-terminal DNA-binding domain.
Gene knockout studies in mice suggest that it is required for hematopoiesis and maintenance of the developing vascular network.
This gene is known to be involved in a large number of chromosomal rearrangements associated with leukemia and congenital fibrosarcoma.
Iduronate-2-sulfate levels detect Hurler syndrome.
Specimens include fibroblasts and WBC.
An anticonvulsant that is the active metabolite of TRIMETHADIONE.
The PRKAR1A gene (protein kinase cAMP-dependent type I regulatory subunit alpha) is located on chromosome 17q24.2.
cAMP is a signaling molecule important for a variety of cellular functions.
cAMP exerts its effects by activating the cAMP-dependent protein kinase, which transduces the signal through phosphorylation of different target proteins.
The inactive kinase holoenzyme is a tetramer composed of two regulatory and two catalytic subunits.
cAMP causes the dissociation of the inactive holoenzyme into a dimer of regulatory subunits bound to four cAMP and two free monomeric catalytic subunits.
Four different regulatory subunits and three catalytic subunits have been identified in humans.
This gene encodes one of the regulatory subunits.
This protein was found to be a tissue-specific extinguisher that down-regulates the expression of seven liver genes in hepatoma x fibroblast hybrids.
Mutations in this gene cause Carney complex (CNC).
This gene can fuse to the RET protooncogene by gene rearrangement and form the thyroid tumor-specific chimeric oncogene known as PTC2.
A nonconventional nuclear localization sequence (NLS) has been found for this protein which suggests a role in DNA replication via the protein serving as a nuclear transport protein for the second subunit of the Replication Factor C (RFC40).
Several alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding two different isoforms have been observed.
1,3-Dichloropropene, also known as Telone or simply 1,3-D, is a colorless liquid with a sweet smell.
It exists as a mixture of the geometric isomers cis-1,3-dichloropropene and trans-1,3-dichloropropene.
It dissolves in water and evaporates easily.
It is used mainly in farming as a pesticide, specifically as a preplant fumigant and nematicide.
Evidence for the carcinogenicity of 1,3-dichloropropene in humans is inadequate, but results from several cancer bioassays provide adequate evidence of carcinogenicity in animals.
In the US, the Department of Health and Human Services (DHHS) has determined that 1,3-dichloropropene may reasonably be anticipated to be a carcinogen.
The International Agency for Research on Cancer (IARC) has determined that 1,3-dichloropropene is possibly carcinogenic to humans.
The EPA has classified 1,3-dichloropropene as a probable human carcinogen
Lentils are annuals with flattened edible seeds just a few millimetres in diameter.
Lentils are now cultivated in most warm and subtropical regions of the world.
Popular in parts of Europe and a staple throughout much of the Middle East and India, this tiny, lens-shaped, high-protein pulse, said to be the most nutritious of the pulses, has long been used as a meat substitute.
Lentil is the most common legume implicated in allergic reactions in food-allergic paediatric patients in the Mediterranean area and in many Asian communities.
Approximately 20% of patients allergic to these legumes present with severe and systemic symptoms, although isolated cutaneous reactions are most common.
The Interleukins belong to the family termed cytokines.
They are peptides used by immune and inflammatory cells to communicate and control cell operations.
The cytokines have some similar actions to the Growth Factors but Growth Factors regulate proliferation of non-immune cells.
Interleukin 7 is a 25,000 molecular weight glycoprotein produced primarily in bone marrow stromal cells.
Its primary target cells are B cells.
Interleukin 7 supports long term culture of B cells.
Interleukin 7 plays an important role in maintenance of a population of pre B lymphocytes although it does not stimulate differention of pre B cells to B cells.
Interleukin 7 also activates myeloid cell proliferation and differentiation.
Histologic focality is whether a single focus or multiple foci of invasive cancer are present on histologic exam.
Foci are considered distinct if they have clear margins and are separated by uninvolved tissue.
Formiminoglutamic acid (FIGLU) is an intermediate in the metabolism of histidine.
The "FIGLU" test is used to identify deficiency of vitamin B12 or folate deficiency or liver disease.
The CLRN1 (clarin 1) gene is located on chromosome 3q25.
This gene encodes a protein that contains a cytosolic N-terminus, multiple helical transmembrane domains, and an endoplasmic reticulum membrane retention signal, TKGH, in the C-terminus.
The encoded protein may be important in development and homeostasis of the inner ear and retina.
Mutations within this gene have been associated with Usher syndrome type IIIa.
Multiple transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms have been identified for this gene.
Amino acids are organic compounds that combine to form proteins.
Amino acids and proteins are the building blocks of life.
When proteins are digested or broken down, amino acids are left.
The body uses amino acids to make proteins to help the body: break down food, grow, repair body tissue, and perform many other body functions.
Amino acids can also be used as a source of energy.
Essential amino acids cannot be made by the body, and as a result, they must come from food.
The 9 essential amino acids are: histidine, isoleucine, leucine, lysine, methionine, phenylalanine, threonine, tryptophan, and valine.
The GATA1 (GATA binding protein 1) gene is located on chromosome Xp11.23.
This gene encodes a protein which belongs to the GATA family of transcription factors.
The protein plays an important role in erythroid development by regulating the switch of fetal hemoglobin to adult hemoglobin.
Mutations in this gene have been associated with X-linked dyserythropoietic anemia and thrombocytopenia.
Mutations in GATA1 exon 2 have been detected in virtually all cases of megakaryoblastic leukemia and transient myeloproliferative disorder, and mutations in this exon are also associated with X-linked anemia with or without neutropenia and/or platelet abnormalities.
Parainfluenza virus is from the family Paramyxoviridae and the genera Paramyxovirus which includes the parainfluenza viruses and the mumps virus.
Paramyxoviruses are particles up to 300 nm in diameter.
They are spiral, tube-like symmetrical nucleocapsids which contain a monopartite, single-stranded, negative-sense RNA genome and an RNA-directed RNA polymerase.
There is a matrix protein at the base of a double-layered lipid envelope which contains spikes with two glycoproteins, a viral attachment protein and a fusion protein.
The viral protein spikes in parainfluenza viruses have hemagglutinating and neuraminidase activities.
As all paramyxoviruses are labile, they are quickly inactivated (e.g., by heat, detergents, ultraviolet light).
Primary infections occur in young children and cause mild or severe upper and lower respiratory tract infections.
Reinfection is common and results in milder manifestation.
Transmission is by direct contact or by droplets.
Parainfluenza virus diseases are usually endemic although they can be epidemic.
Calcium bilirubinate comprises the majority of intrahepatic calculi and stones.
Pyruvate dehydrogenase complex (PDC) is a complex of three enzymes that transform pyruvate into acetyl-CoA by a process called pyruvate decarboxylation, also known as the "pyruvate dehydrogenase reaction" because it also involves the oxidation of pyruvate.
This multi-enzyme complex is related structurally and functionally to the oxoglutarate dehydrogenase and branched-chain oxo-acid dehydrogenase multi-enzyme complexes.
Pyruvate dehydrogenase deficiency can result from mutations in any of the enzymes or cofactors.
Its primary clinical finding is lactic acidosis.
Cryptococcus neoformans and C. gattii are fungi species known to cause pulmonary and systemic cryptococcosis.
C. neoformans causes severe meningitis and meningo-encephalitis in patients with advanced HIV/AIDS.
C. gattii is found primarily in tropical and subtropical climates and is capable of causing cryptococcosis in non-immunocompromised patients.
More recently, an outbreak of C. gattii occurred in British Columbia, possibly due to global warming.
Ross River virus (RRV) is a species in the genus Alphavirus, family Togaviridae.
RRV is a mosquito-borne virus that is common in Australia.
Symptoms of RRV disease include fever, joint and muscle pain, and lethargy and may last 6 months or longer.
Hosts include kangaroos, wallabies, and other marsupials, as well as sheep, birds, and horses.
The HARS2 gene (histidyl-tRNA synthetase 2, mitochondrial) is located on chromosome 5q31.3.
Aminoacyl-tRNA synthetases are a class of enzymes that charge tRNAs with their cognate amino acids.
The protein encoded by this gene is an enzyme belonging to the class II family of aminoacyl-tRNA synthetases.
Functioning in the synthesis of histidyl-transfer RNA, the enzyme plays an accessory role in the regulation of protein biosynthesis.
The gene is located in a head-to-head orientation with HARS on chromosome five, where the homologous genes likely share a bidirectional promoter.
Mutations in this gene are associated with the pathogenesis of Perrault syndrome, which involves ovarian dysgenesis and sensorineural hearing loss.
Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants of this gene.
Proteus mirabilis is a Gram-negative, facultatively anaerobic, rod shaped bacterium.
It shows swarming motility, and urease activity.
P. mirabilis causes 90% of all 'Proteus' infections in humans.
CD25 is the alpha chain of the IL-2 receptor.
CD25 is a type I transmembrane protein present on activated T cells, activated B cells, some thymocytes, myeloid precursors, and oligodendrocytes that associates with CD122 to form a heterodimer that can act as a high-affinity receptor for IL-2.
It has been found that a large proportion of resting memory T cells constitutively express CD25 in humans.
CD25 is expressed in most B-cell neoplasms, some acute nonlymphocytic leukemias, neuroblastomas, and tumor infiltrating lymphocytes.
sIL-2R is its soluble form, and may be elevated in these diseases and has been used to monitor disease progression.
Adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH or corticotropin) is a 39 amino acid polypeptide hormone synthesised from pre-opiomelanocortin (POMC).
It is secreted from corticotropes in the anterior lobe of the pituitary gland in response to a corticotropin-releasing hormone.
Thyrotropin Releasing Hormone (TRH) is a tripeptide produced primarily by the hypothalamus.
TRH is produced from a prohormone which contains multiple copies of the TRH molecule meaning that several TRH entities can be released from one precursor.
It has a stimulatory effect on the pituitary releasing Thyrotropin (TSH).
TRH secretion is controlled in a negative feedback system by thyroid hormones.
Binding of TRH to its receptor causes a rise in calcium which initiates TSH secretion.
It also stimulates adenyl cyclase in the pituitary.
TRH also stimulates secretion of Prolactin, Growth Hormone in Acromegaly, and ACTH in Cushing's and Nelson's Syndromes.
Levels of TRH are non-detectable or very low in patients with Hyperthyroidism and Hypothalamic Hypothyroidism.
Levels are elevated in patients with Primary and Pituitary Hypothyroidism
A plant species of the family APIACEAE.
The stalks are a food source.
Cardiolipin (bisphosphatidyl glycerol) is an important component of the inner mitochondrial membrane, where it constitutes about 20% of the total lipid.
It is typically present in metabolically active cells of the heart and skeletal muscle.
It has also been observed in certain bacterial membranes.
It serves as an insulator and stabilizes the activity of protein complexes important to the electron transport chain.
Cardiolipin is a double phospholipid because it has four fatty acid tails, instead of the usual two.
Barth syndrome, a rare genetic disorder, is a mutation in the gene coding for tafazzin, an enzyme involved in the biosynthesis of cardiolipin.
Females heterozygous for the trait are not affected.
Individuals with this condition have abnormal mitochondria and they cannot sustain adequate production of ATP.
Cardiomyopathy and general weakness are common to these patients.
Tocilizumab is a recombinant humanized monoclonal antibody against the interleukin-6 receptor being used to treat patients with COVID-19 pneumonia.
Such patients are in danger of developing a hyperimmune response known as a cytokine storm which is characterized by an increased production of cytokines.
The cytokines cause damage and lung tissue fibrosis that can last an extensive amount of time.
The current treatment for COVID-19 includes the use of anti-viral and immunomodulatory drugs, including tocilizumab.
Tocilizumab is also used to treat severe rheumatoid arthritis, systemic juvenile idiopathic arthritis, giant cell arteritis, and life-threatening cytokine release syndrome induced by chimeric antigen receptor T cell therapy.
Maize/corn kernels grow on long "ears" at the leaf axils of this unusual plant.
The original habitat was probably South America or Mexico, where Maize was the staple diet of the American Indian.
Maize is now grown almost anywhere summers are reasonably warm.
Maize may moderately often sensitise or induce symptoms of food allergy in sensitised individuals.
Allergic symptoms reported have included abdominal pain, nausea, vomiting, rhinitis, asthma, angioedema, atopic dermatitis, and anaphylaxis.
The Pumpkin is thought to have originated in Central America, possibly Mexico, but is now grown widely in temperate and tropical zones.
It is an annual climber, typically with a large, round, ribbed edible orange fruit.
But Pumpkin comes in several other forms such as the finer-textured, straw-colored Cheese Pumpkin.
Pumpkin can induce symptoms of food allergy in sensitised individuals.
Dermatitis, asthma, rhinoconjuctivitis, itching of the mouth, angioedema of the face and lips, generalised itching and mild dyspnoea have been reported
Biochemical analyses have shown that the Xg^a antigen is located on a 27,000 molecular weight sialoglycoprotein.
This protein is encoded for by a gene on the X chromosome at position Xp22-32.
The Xg locus is one of the few genes on the X chromosome that are not subject to Lyonization, ie., random "switching off" in females of one of the X genes.
Goodfellow and Tippett have observed an interesting association between the Xg^a antigen and CD99.
They found that the CD99 antigen also showed variable expression which appeared to be related to sex.
Individuals who are high expressors of CD99 are Xg(a+).
Although there are Xg(a-), CD99 low expressors, no "null phenotype" has yet to be found.
Since these two proteins may associate with each other in the red cell membrane, the null would presumably lack both the Xg and CD99 proteins.
No disease association has been found with a particular Xg phenotype.
Propyphenazone is a derivative of phenazone with similar analgesic and antipyretic effects.
The Spinach plant is indigenous to the Middle East.
Spinach was subsequently grown in Spain from the 8th century, and it was the Spaniards who eventually introduced it to the United States.
Spinach is now produced widely throughout the world for its edible leaves.
It is the only edible vegetable in the Chenopodiaceae (Spinach) family.
Two varieties exist: Savoy (wrinkled-leaf) and Semi-Savoy (flat-leaf).
Spinach can induce symptoms of food allergy in sensitised individuals.
Oral allergy syndrome induced by Spinach has been reported.
Endosulfan I is one of two isomers in technical-grade endosulfan.
It is a cream or tan colored crystalline pesticide that smells like turpentine and is used to treat insects on food and non-food crops.
It is also a fungicide, herbicide, acaricide and wood preservative.
It is extremely toxic to humans if it is ingested, inhaled, or absorbed by the skin.
Endosulfan I is not classified as a human carcinogen.
It is dangerously poisonous to fish and other aquatic wildlife.
The TRAPPC2 gene (trafficking protein particle complex 2) is located on chromosome Xp22.
The protein encoded by this gene is thought to be part of a large multi-subunit complex involved in the targeting and fusion of endoplasmic reticulum-to-Golgi transport vesicles with their acceptor compartment.
In addition, the encoded protein can bind c-myc promoter-binding protein 1 and block its transcriptional repression capability.
Mutations in this gene are a cause of spondyloepiphyseal dysplasia tarda (SEDT).
A processed pseudogene of this gene is located on chromosome 19, and other pseudogenes are found on chromosomes 8 and Y. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been found for this gene.
Xanthopterin is pterin derivative and co-factor of cell metabolism.
It inhibits the growth of lymphocytes produced by concanavalin.
Xanthopterin and other pterins are thought to be associated with malignant diseases and therefore are used as biomarkers in a growing number of malignancies, including breast cancer.
High levels of Xanthopterin have been found in patients with liver disease and hemolysis.
The posterior- superior angle between the long axis of the mandibular central incisor and the mandibular plane (Constructed Gonion to Menton)
HPV type 82 has been associated with low grade cervical abnormalities, cancer precursors, and anogenital cancers.
Methyl acrylate is a volatile alpha beta unsubstituted methyl ester used in the preparation of polyamidoamine (PAMAM) dendrimers typically by Michael addition with a primary amine.
Methyl acrylate is a contact allergen present in nail lacquer.
It can be used as a co-polymer in the process of polymerisation of poly anionic cellulose (PAC) polymers, to reduce the glass transition temperature of the PAC polymers.
Methyl acrylate is reagent used in the synthesis of remi-fentanil.
A synthetic progestational hormone with actions similar to those of PROGESTERONE but functioning as a more potent inhibitor of ovulation.
It has weak estrogenic and androgenic properties.
The hormone has been used in treating amenorrhea, functional uterine bleeding, endometriosis, and for contraception.
The International Working Group on Morphology of Myelodysplastic Syndrome (IWGM-MDS) defines siderocytes Type 1 as having fewer than 5 siderotic granules in the cytoplasm, Type 2 as having 5 or more siderotic granules and without a perinuclear distribution and Type 3 as 5 or more siderotic granules in a perinuclear position surrounding the nucleus.
The kinetoplastid protozoan parasite Trypanosoma cruzi is the organism that causes Chagas disease.
It was discovered in 1909 in Brazil by Carlos Chagas.
T cruzi is transmitted to mammals, birds, and reptiles by many of the over 130 species of triatomine bugs.
T cruzi can be found in the United States, Mexico, Central America, and South America.
The highest density of vector diversity of T cruzi is in the western United States where woodrats are its most common reservoir.
Other animals that harbor T cruzi include raccoons, skunks, and coyotes.
Infection with T cruzi may be mild or asymptomatic, or rarely can be acute with severe inflammation of the heart muscle, the brain, and the lining around the brain.
Approximately 8 million people are infected with T cruzi in Mexico, Central America, and South America, of whom 20-30% will develop symptoms and possibly life-threatening disease.
T cruzi is visible on thin or thick blood smears during the acute phase of infection.
There are also serological tests used to diagnose past or present infection with T cruzi.
CD47 (Cluster of Differentiation 47) is a human protein encoded by the CD47 gene.
This gene encodes a membrane protein, which is involved in the increase in intracellular calcium concentration that occurs upon cell adhesion to extracellular matrix.
The encoded protein is also a receptor for the C-terminal cell binding domain of thrombospondin, and it may play a role in membrane transport and signal transduction.
This gene has broad tissue distribution, and is reduced in expression on Rh erythrocytes.
Four alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms have been found for this gene.
Isoform 2 and 4 are the most abundant.
Other than thrombospondin, CD47 also binds CD172a.
CD47 deficient mice have been generated.
Their reported phenotype is a defect in cellular migration of the CD172a expressing cells, suggesting that CD47 to CD172a interactions are necessary for the proper distribution of these cell types.
A species of gram-negative bacteria parasitic on HORSES and DONKEYS causing GLANDERS, which can be transmitted to humans.
The WT1 gene (Wilms tumor 1) is located on chromosome 11p13.
This gene encodes a transcription factor that contains four zinc-finger motifs at the C-terminus and a proline/glutamine-rich DNA-binding domain at the N-terminus.
It has an essential role in the normal development of the urogenital system, and it is mutated in a small subset of patients with Wilm's tumors.
This gene exhibits complex tissue-specific and polymorphic imprinting pattern, with biallelic, and monoallelic expression from the maternal and paternal alleles in different tissues.
Multiple transcript variants have been described.
In several variants, there is evidence for the use of a non-AUG (CUG) translation initiation site upstream of and in-frame with the first AUG.
Authors of PMID:7926762 also provide evidence that WT1 mRNA undergoes
RNA editing in human and rat, and that this process is tissue-restricted and developmentally regulated.
The spontaneous clot formation time (Tsp) is the time from the beginning of the assay to time at which the average area of spontaneous clots comprises at least five percent of the overall sample area.
This clotting parameter characterizes clotting that is independent of the activator surface; under normal conditions, no spontaneous clotting is observed.
Scallops, or fan shells, are found in all seas, both shallow and deep.
There is some cross reactivity between crustaceans and mollusks.
Allergic reactions include urticaria, angioedema, gastrointestinal distress, asthma, rhinitis, and anaphylaxis, and also severe allergic reactions, requiring emergency treatment.
Sera shows IgE activity to a 38kD protein present in boiled muscle extracts of all mollusks, and these results suggest that the heat-stable 38kD protein is the major cross-reactive allergen present in crustaceans and mollusks, identified as the muscle protein tropomyosin.
Immunoblot inhibitions have demonstrated up to 28% bi-directional cross-reactivity between shrimp and scallops, further confirming the major cross-reactive antigen as the respective tropomyosins of shrimps and scallops.
It has been noted that many patients allergic to shrimp do not show clinical hypersensitivity reactions to mollusks or other seafood, indicating the existence of genus specific antigens.
The allergen code is f338.
The concentration of methylphenidate or ritalinic acid (Alpha-Phenyl-2-Piperidine acetate), its major metabolite, may be quantified in plasma, serum or whole blood in order to monitor compliance in those receiving the drug therapeutically, to confirm the diagnosis in potential poisoning victims or to assist in the forensic investigation in a case of fatal overdosage
Strongyloidiasis is a parasitic disease caused by Strongyloides nematodes (roundworms), that enter the body through exposed skin, such as bare feet.
It is most common in tropical or subtropical climates.
Two species of Strongyloides infect humans, S. stercoralis and S. fuelleborni.
Most people do not know they are infected and have no symptoms.
Others may develop a severe form and, if untreated, become critically ill and potentially die.
Symptoms include; stomachache, bloating, and heartburn, intermittent episodes of diarrhea and constipation, nausea and loss of appetite, dry cough, throat irritation, an itchy, red rash that occurs where the worm entered the skin, and recurrent raised red rash typically along the thighs and buttocks.
Rarely, severe life-threatening forms of the disease called hyperinfection syndrome and disseminated strongyloidiasis can occur.
These forms of the disease are more common in people who are on corticosteroids (prednisone for example) or other immunosuppressive therapies.
The identification of mature and immature granulocytes, including myelocytes and metamyelocytes, in blood and bone marrow is fundamental to the diagnosis of haematological disorders.
A myelocyte is a young cell of the granulocytic series, occurring normally in bone marrow, but not in circulating blood (except when caused by certain diseases).
Myelocytes are derived from promyelocytes and give rise to metamyelocytes.
When stained with the usual dyes, the cytoplasm in myelocytes is distinctly basophilic and relatively more abundant than in myeloblasts or promyelocytes.
Numerous cytoplasmic granules are present in the more mature forms of myelocytes.
Neutrophilic and eosinophilic granules are peroxidase-positive, while basophilic granules are not.
The nucleus of a myelocyte is fairly regular in contour (not indented), and seems to be 'buried' beneath the numerous cytoplasmic granules.
If the nucleus were indented, it is likely be a metamyelocyte.
Arterial pulse wave velocity, such as aortic pulse wave velocity (PWV), is a reflection of arterial stiffness, and aortic PWV may be a marker of cardiovascular outcomes in patients with hypertension, diabetes and end-stage renal disease.
PWV is calculated as the distance traveled between two arterial pulse measurement sites, such as the carotid and femoral arteries, divided by the time it takes for a single pulse wave to travel between the two sites.
A mycotoxin is a toxic secondary metabolite produced by an organism of the fungus kingdom, including mushrooms, molds, and yeasts.]
The term 'mycotoxin' is usually reserved for the toxic chemical products produced by fungi that readily colonize crops.
Most fungi are aerobic (use oxygen) and are found almost everywhere in extremely small quantities due to the minute size of their spores.
They consume organic matter wherever humidity and temperature are sufficient.
One mold species may produce many different mycotoxins and/or the same mycotoxin as another species.
A topical dermatologic agent that is used in the treatment of acne vulgaris and several other skin diseases.
The drug has teratogenic and other adverse effects.
A metallic element with the atomic symbol W, atomic number 74, and atomic weight 183.85.
It is used in many manufacturing applications, including increasing the hardness, toughness, and tensile strength of steel; manufacture of filaments for incandescent light bulbs; and in contact points for automotive and electrical apparatus.
Peak velocity of blood flow in the aorta.
The activated clotting time (ACT) measures the time to clot formation after addition of an activator, and is used primarily to monitor a patient's coagulation status during surgery, especially procedures during which patients are on cardiopulmonary bypass.
The activator may stimulate the intrinsic and/or extrinsic coagulation pathway, and commonly used activators include kaolin, Celite and glass beads.
Various anticoagulant drugs can be used to prevent clot formation and consumption of platelets during surgery.
The most common is unfractionated heparin because it has a short half-life and is easily reversed.
Baseline ACT and subsequent ACT measurements during and after the procedure help determine the initial heparin dose and titration parameters to achieve a stable level of anticoagulation during surgery, as well as appropriate reversal of anticoagulation after surgery.
The ACT can be affected by platelet count, platelet function, temperature of the blood, and acquired or inherited hematologic conditions.
The ACT is a point of care test used to monitor patients receiving high doses of heparin in an acute setting, while partial thromboplastin time (PTT) is used to monitor patients who are on lower, long-term therapeutic doses of heparin.
The M204I mutations are associated with Lamivudine, Telbivudine and Tenofovir resistance
The FXN gene (frataxin) is located on chromosome 9q21.11.
This nuclear gene encodes a mitochondrial protein which belongs to FRATAXIN family.
The protein functions in regulating mitochondrial iron transport and respiration.
The expansion of intronic trinucleotide repeat GAA results in Friedreich ataxia.
Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants.
A urea cycle enzyme that catalyzes the formation of orthophosphate and L-citrulline (CITRULLINE) from CARBAMOYL PHOSPHATE and L-ornithine (ORNITHINE).
Deficiency of this enzyme may be transmitted as an X-linked trait. .
Midazolam belongs to the benzodiazepine class of drugs and exerts anxiolytic, amnestic, hypnotic, anticonvulsant and sedative effects.
Midazolam binds to the benzodiazepine receptor at the gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) - chloride ionophore complex found in the central nervous system.
Midazolam is used for premedication, to induce and maintain anesthesia and in sedation for diagnostic and therapeutic procedures.
Fibrinogen is a plasma glycoprotein that was first isolated from horse plasma in 1876.
Fibrinogen is produced in the liver and constitutes 5% of the total plasma protein.
It is vital to wound healing, fibrinolysis, inflammation, cellular and matrix interactions and neoplasia by interacting with numerous proteins and cells.
Fibrinogen activates a series of clotting factors in response to an injury or other stimuli that leads to the enzymatic conversion of soluble fibrinogen into fibrin.
Fibrin is the insoluble, structural component of blood clots.
Fibrinogen is an acute phase reactant that can increase 200-400% in response to infection, chronic inflammation, smoking and other environmental stresses.
The human leukocyte antigen B (HLA-B;) plays an important role in how the immune system recognizes and responds to pathogens.
HLA-B belongs to a class of molecules that are found on the surface of most cells.
These molecules are responsible for presenting peptides to immune cells.
Peptides derived from normal human proteins are recognized as such, whereas foreign peptides derived from pathogens trigger an immune response.
Antiepileptics with an aromatic ring, for example carbamazepine and phenytoin, interact with HLA-B*31:01 and alter the repertoire of self peptides that are presented to T lymphocytes, which activates an immune reaction known as Stevens-Johnson syndrome or toxic epidermal necrolysis.
The APP gene (amyloid beta (A4) precursor protein) is located on chromosome 21q21.3.
This gene encodes a cell surface receptor and transmembrane precursor protein that is cleaved by secretases to form a number of peptides.
Some of these peptides are secreted and can bind to the acetyltransferase complex APBB1/TIP60 to promote transcriptional activation, while others form the protein basis of the amyloid plaques found in the brains of patients with Alzheimer disease.
In addition, two of the peptides are antimicrobial peptides, having been shown to have bacteriocidal and antifungal activities.
Mutations in this gene have been implicated in autosomal dominant Alzheimer disease and cerebroarterial amyloidosis (cerebral amyloid angiopathy).
Multiple transcript variants encoding several different isoforms have been found for this gene.
The CYBA gene (cytochrome b-245, alpha polypeptide) is located on chromosome 16q24.
Cytochrome b is comprised of a light chain (alpha) and a heavy chain (beta).
This gene encodes the light, alpha subunit which has been proposed as a primary component of the microbicidal oxidase system of phagocytes.
Mutations in this gene are associated with autosomal recessive chronic granulomatous disease (CGD), that is characterized by the failure of activated phagocytes to generate superoxide, which is important for the microbicidal activity of these cells.
Etamivan (INN) or ethamivan (USAN), trade name Analepticon, is a respiratory stimulant drug related to nikethamide.
It was mainly used in the treatment of barbiturate overdose and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, but has now largely fallen into disuse.
The New World genus Sylvilagus includes the many species of Cottontail Rabbit, which resemble the European Rabbit in appearance.
The North American species called Jackrabbit are actually Hares (having longer ears and legs, and giving birth to already furred and open-eyed young), as is the Snowshoe Rabbit.
The domesticated so-called Belgian Hare, on the other hand, is a Rabbit.
Monoblasts are normally found in bone marrow and do not appear in the normal peripheral blood.
They mature into monocytes, which, in turn, develop into macrophages.
Follicle stimulating hormone (FSH) is a hormone synthesized and secreted by gonadotropes in the anterior pituitary gland.
In the ovary FSH stimulates the growth of immature Graafian follicles to maturation.
As the follicle grows it releases inhibin, which shuts off the FSH production.
In men, FSH enhances the production of androgen-binding protein by the Sertoli cells of the testes and is critical for spermatogenesis.
FSH and LH act synergistically in reproduction.
Palladium is a chemical element with the chemical symbol Pd and an atomic number of 46.
Meconium is the earliest stools of an infant.
Unlike later feces, meconium is composed of materials ingested during the time the infant spends in the uterus: intestinal epithelial cells, lanugo, mucus, amniotic fluid, bile, and water.
Meconium is almost sterile and, unlike later feces, is viscous and sticky like tar, and has no odor.
It should be completely over after a few days, with the stools progressing toward yellow (digested milk).
The term meconium derives from meconium-arion, meaning "opium-like", in reference either to its tarry appearance or to Aristotle's belief that it induces sleep in the fetus.
EEG signal quality index (SQI) reflects the quality of the EEG signal based on impedance measurement and is calculated at a particular moment in time based on measurements taken in the immediately preceding time period, such as 60 to 90 seconds.
The signal quality is taken into account when calculating certain EEG variables, such as the bispectral index, and interpreting EEG results.
The ability of an infant to survive outside the uterus is dependent on proper pulmonary function.
Pulmonary surfactant is needed to reduce the surface tension of the air-liquid interface of the alveolar lining, so that alveoli do not collapse upon expiration.
Infants born with a deficiency of pulmonary surfactant are at increased risk of developing respiratory distress syndrome (RDS).
The incidence of RDS is dependent on the gestational age, with more RDS occurring in younger fetuses.
Echinochloa crus-galli is a type of wild grass originating from tropical Asia that was formerly classified as a type of panicum grass.
It is commonly known as Cockspur (or Cockspur Grass), Common Barnyard Grass, or simply "barnyard grass".
Neissera meningitidis serogroup w135 accounts for <5% of Meningococcal disease in the US, but has been associated with multi-national outbreaks in Africa.
Magnesium salts are essential in nutrition, being required for the activity of many enzymes, especially those concerned with oxidative phosphorylation.
Physiologically, it exists as an ion in the body.
It is a component of both intra- and extracellular fluids and is excreted in the urine and feces.
Deficiency causes irritability of the nervous system with tetany, vasodilatation, convulsions, tremors, depression, and psychotic behavior.
Magnesium ion in large amounts is an ionic laxative, and magnesium sulfate (Epsom salts) is sometimes used for this purpose.
So-called "milk of magnesia" is a water suspension of one of the few insoluble magnesium compounds, magnesium hydroxide; the undissolved particles give rise to its appearance and name.
Milk of magnesia is a mild base, and is commonly used as an antacid.
Neurofilaments (Nfs) are the dominant proteins of the axonal cytoskeleton and are composed of 3 subunits, a light (NfL, 68-70 kDa), a medium (NfM, 145-160 kDa) and a heavy (NfH, 200-220 kDa) chain.
They are CNS cell-type specific proteins and potential markers for axonal injury, disintegration and loss in conditions such as multiple sclerosis.
Tri a aA/TI is an alpha amylase/trypsin inhibitor that can result in allergic reactions by ingesting or inhaling wheat.
The AGL gene (amylo-alpha-1, 6-glucosidase, 4-alpha-glucanotransferase) is located on chromosome 1p21.
This gene encodes the glycogen debrancher enzyme which is involved in glycogen degradation.
This enzyme has two independent catalytic activities which occur at different sites on the protein: a 4-alpha-glucotransferase activity and a amylo-1,6-glucosidase activity.
Mutations in this gene are associated with glycogen storage disease although a wide range of enzymatic and clinical variability occurs which may be due to tissue-specific alternative splicing.
Alternatively spliced transcripts encoding different isoforms have been described.
Lipopolysaccharide binding protein (LBP) is an acute phase reactant that is constantly being produced by hepatocytes to maintain a plasma level of 5-15 ug/mL. When an acute phase response is initiated, interleukin-1 (IL-1) and interleukin-6 (IL-6) are released by monocytes and macrophages and together induce the synthesis of large amounts of LBP, raising its plasma concentration to 200 ug/mL. When gram-negative bacterial infection occurs, the innate immune system recognizes the glycolipid outer membrane of the bacteria called lipopolysaccharide (LPS).
LBP strongly binds to LPS and transfers it to the cellular LPS receptor made up of CD14 and Toll-like receptor-4.
The presence of LBP with low concentrations of LPS speeds up the release of cytokines earlier in the infection process.
The main role of LBP is to initiate an inflammatory response even when the level of LPS is still low.
Another way that LBP is important is that it catalyzes the movement of LPS to aggregates of high density lipoprotein particles which neutralize LPS.
Wall pellitory is a common weed around the Mediterranean and along the West coast of Europe as far north as central England.
It is found in Spain, Greece, Italy and Israel, and has been introduced in other parts of Western Europe and in Australia and Argentina.
Two closely related species are found in the US and one in Brazil.
The genus Parietaria has about 10 species, which are highly cross-reactive to each other.
Parietaria pollen allergens (officinalis, judaica, lusitanica, creatica) are one of the most common causes of pollinosis in areas where the plants grow.
A close correlation exists between the species P. judaica and P. officinalis.
In some geographical areas one species may dominate, and IgE antibodies to only one of the species can be found in sensitised individuals.
Parietaria pollen can induce asthma, allergic rhinitis and allergic conjunctivitis.
Flomoxef (INN) is a cephalosporin antibiotic.
The edible crab, Cancer pagurus, is a species of crab found in the North Sea, North Atlantic and the Mediterranean Sea.
It is a robust crab of a reddish-brown color, having an oval carapace with a characteristic "pie crust" edge and black tips to the claws.
Mature adults may have a carapace width of up to about 25 cm, weigh up to 3 kg and a lifespan of about 20 years.
3-hydroxyadipic acid 3,6-lactone is a urinary organic acid.
Its level in urine is markedly increased during fasting and in some forms of dicarboxylic aciduria.
German Camomile is native to Europe and western Asia and naturalised in North America.
It is cultivated in Germany, Hungary, Russia, and several other European countries.
Camomile pollen can induce asthma, allergic rhinitis and allergic conjunctivitis
The Hazel tree is native to all of the British Isles and Europe, and to West Asia and North Africa.
It has been naturalised in other parts of the world.
Hazel pollen is important, resulting in asthma, hayfever and allergic rhinitis in Hazel pollen-allergic individuals, in particular in early spring
Weed allergen mix 209 (Rw209) detects ambrosia elatior (w1), ambrosia psilostachya (w2), and ambrosia trifida (w3) IgE antibodies.
Testing for IgE antibodies may be used to help diagnose an allergic disease or the cause of an anaphylactic episode in a patient.
Enzyme and fluorescent-based assays, which were preceded by the RAST test (Radio-AllergoSorbent Test), are performed to detect allergen-specific IgE in the patient's serum.
A species of gram-negative bacteria, in the family Aeromonadaceae.
It is strictly parasitic and often pathogenic causing FURUNCULOSIS in SALMONIDS and ulcer disease in GOLDFISH.
Phenylpyruvic acid is a keto-acid that is an intermediate or catabolic byproduct of phenylalanine metabolism.
It has a slight honey-like odor.
Levels of phenylpyruvate are normally very low in blood or urine.
High levels of phenylpyruvic acid can be found in the urine of individuals with phenylketonuria (PKU).
PKU is due to lack of the enzyme phenylalanine hydroxylase (PAH), so that phenylalanine is converted not to tyrosine but to phenylpyruvic acid.
In particular, excessive phenylalanine can be metabolized into phenylketones through, a transaminase pathway route involving glutamate.
Metabolites of this transamination reaction include phenylacetate, phenylpyruvate and phenethylamine.
In persons with PKU, dietary phenylalanine either accumulates in the body or some of it is converted to phenylpyruvic acid.
Individuals with PKU tend to excrete large quantities of phenylpyruvate, phenylacetate and phenyllactate, along with phenylalanine, in their urine.
If untreated, mental retardation effects and microcephaly are evident by the first year along with other symptoms which include: unusual irritability, epileptic seizures and skin lesions.
Hyperactivity, EEG abnormalities and seizures, and severe learning disabilities are major clinical problems later in life.
A "musty or mousy" odor of skin, hair, sweat and urine (due to phenylacetate accumulation); and a tendency to hypopigmentation and eczema are also observed.
The neural-development effects of PKU are primarily due to the disruption of neurotransmitter synthesis.
In particular, phenylalanine is a large, neutral amino acid which moves across the blood-brain barrier (BBB) via the large neutral amino acid transporter (LNAAT).
Excessive phenylalanine in the blood saturates the transporter.
Thus, excessive levels of phenylalanine significantly decrease the levels of other LNAAs in the brain.
But since these amino acids are required for protein and neurotransmitter synthesis, phenylalanine accumulation disrupts brain development, leading to mental retardation.
Equine rhinitis A virus (ERAV), is a species within the genus Aphthovirus and family Picornaviridae.
ERAV contains a single serotype, equine rhinitis A virus 1 (ERAV-1, formerly known as equine rhinovirus 1).
ERAVs are thought to be a common cause of upper and lower respiratory tract disease in horses
CD64, also known as Fc gamma receptor I, is a transmembrane glycoprotein that is part of the large immunoglobulin (Ig) superfamily.
CD64 is encoded by 3 genes (FCγRI A-C), one for the transmembrane region and the other 2 for the Ig-like domains.
CD64 is consitutively expressed on monocytes and macrophages (but inducible on neutrophils), and it has a pivotal role in antibody-dependent cytotoxicity and clearance of immune complexes.
The presence of this molecule on neutrophils can aid in the diagnosis of infection and sepsis, and immuotherapeutic agents targeting CD64 have emerged as candidates for treatment of chronic inflammatory diseases such as atopic dermatitis, rheumatoid arthritis, and autoimmune disorders .
Salicyluric acid is an aryl glycine conjugate formed by the body to eliminate excess salicylates, including aspirin.
Aspirin is rapidly hydrolysed to salicylic acid which is further metabolized to various compounds, including salicyluric acid (SU) as well as various acyl and phenolic glucuronides, and hydroxylated metabolites.
SU is the major metabolite of SA excreted in urine and it is present in the urine of people who have not taken salicylate drugs, although it has no anti-inflammatory effects in humans or in animals.
More salicyluric acid (SU) is excreted in the urine of vegetarians than in non-vegetarians, primarily because fruits and vegetables are important sources of dietary salicylates.
However, significantly less (10-15X) SU is excreted by vegetarians than individuals taking low-dose aspirin.
The induction of the salicyluric acid formation is one of the saturable pathways of salicylate elimination.
The formation of the methyl ester of salicyluric acid is observed during the quantitation of salicyluric acid and other salicylate metabolites in urine by high-pressure liquid chromatography.
This methyl ester formation causes artificially low values for salicyluric acid and high values for salicylic acid.
A dideoxynucleoside compound in which the 3'-hydroxy group on the sugar moiety has been replaced by a hydrogen.
This modification prevents the formation of phosphodiester linkages which are needed for the completion of nucleic acid chains.
The compound is a potent inhibitor of HIV replication at low concentrations, acting as a chain-terminator of viral DNA by binding to reverse transcriptase.
Its principal toxic side effect is axonal degeneration resulting in peripheral neuropathy.
Crossreactivity between elk and deer allergens, as well as horse and cow allergens, has been suggested.
Elk has been reported as an occupational allergen.
Studies have shown allergenic relations between deer epithelium allergens and horse or cow epithelium.
Phytanoyl CoA hydroxlase deficiency can be measured by quantifying the release of 14CO2 (from 1-14C) phytanate substrates added to cultured fibroblasts.
This test is performed to investigate peroxisomal breakdown of branched-chain fatty acids and can be helpful in characterizing not only refsum disease (phytanoyl-CoA hydroxlase deficiency) but also generalized peroxisomal biogenesis disorders and peroxisomal alpha and beta oxidation disorders.
The anterior angle formed by Anterior Nasal Spine (ANS) to Xi (geometric center of the ramus) to Suprapogonion (Pm- point along curvature of symphysis which changes form convexity to concavity)
A long-acting, non-sedative antihistaminic used in the treatment of seasonal allergic rhinitis, asthma, allergic conjunctivitis, and chronic idiopathic urticaria.
The drug is well tolerated and has no anticholinergic side effects.
A powerful vasodilator used in emergencies to lower blood pressure or to improve cardiac function.
It is also an indicator for free sulfhydryl groups in proteins.
Setomelanomma/Helminthosporium almost always occurs seasonally and the spores are released on dry, hot days.
Species of Helminthosporium are best known as parasites of cereals and grasses.
It is frequently isolated from grains, grasses, sugar cane, soil and textiles.
Allergy symptoms include rhinitis and/or asthma.
A benzodiazepine derivative used in the treatment of anxiety.
It has sedative, muscle relaxant, and anticonvulsant properties.
One of its metabolites is DIAZEPAM and one of its excretion products is OXAZEPAM.
The Oyster mushroom, or Pleurotus ostreatus, is a common edible mushroom
Phenazepam is a benzodiazepine drug used in the treatment of various mental disorders such as psychiatric schizophrenia and anxiety.
Tricyclic antidepressants (TCA) are a class of drugs first used in the 1950s.
They are named after the drugs' molecular structure, which contains three molecular rings (compared to tetracyclic antidepressants).
von Willebrand factor.ristocetin cofactor analysis aids in the differential diagnosis between hemophilia and vonWillebrand's disease.
Plasma from vonWillebrands's disease type I, IIA, IIC, and III generally lack enough factor to affect normal platelet aggregation in response to Ristocetin while the aggregation is increased in type IIB and normal on type I.
Morphology of the sperm refers to sperm shape.
Sperm morphology evaluation includes assessment of specific head, tail, and mid-piece characteristics according to one of two sets of criteria:
Kruger criteria are strict and consider minute irregularities as abnormal, while World Health Organization (WHO) criteria are more lenient and do not classify as many sperm as abnormal.
In some cases, morphology is used to decide whether a couple should use in vitro fertilization (IVF) to attempt a pregnancy.
A chemical made from crude oil that is mixed with solvents for a number of uses.
Inhaling n-hexane causes nerve damage and paralysis of the arms and legs.
Some people abuse products containing n-hexane by inhaling it to get "high.
Autoimmune gastrointestinal dysmotility (AGID) is an autoimmune autonomic neuropathy that causes delayed stomach emptying and gastrointestinal transit.
Symptoms include nausea or vomiting, constipation, weight loss, early satiety, and bloating.
AGID is diagnosed through gastrointestinal motility studies and bloodwork to detect autoimmune markers.
Whole chromosome painting probes are collections of smaller probes that bind to a different sequence along the length of a given chromosome.
Using multiple probes labeled with a mixture of different fluorescent dyes, each chromosome is "painted" using its own unique color, and the resulting full-color map of the chromosome is called a spectral karyotype.
Chromosome painting probes are useful for examining complex chromosomal structural aberrations, for example, translocations or subtle rearrangements.
An enzyme that catalyzes the phosphorylation of AMP to ADP in the presence of ATP or inorganic triphosphate. .
Porphyrins are created as byproducts of porphyrinogens.
Hereditary enzyme disorders leading to the buildup of porphyrins or porphyrinogens cause porphyrias and affect the heme biosynthetic pathway.
Most of these disorders are inherited as autosomal dominant disorders.
Increased urine porphyrins are seen with congenital erythropoietic porphyria, acute intermittent porphyria, hereditary coproporphyria, variegate porphyria, and porphyria cutanea tarda.
Information from LOINC partner 1 and Jacobs and DeMott Laboratory Test Handbook, 5th edition, DS Jacobs, WR DeMott and DK Oxley, 2001.
Enoxacin (trade names Enroxil®, Penetrex®) is an oral broad-spectrum quinoline antibacterial agent used in the treatment of urinary tract infections and gonorrhea.
It is no longer available in the United States.
Antibodies to VGKC are associated with peripheral nerve hyperexcitability (acquired neuromyotonia or Isaac's disease), autonomic involvement, Morvan's syndrome, limbic syndromes.
Voltage-gated potassium channels (VGKC) are transmembrane channels specific for potassium and sensitive to voltage changes in the cell's membrane potential.
During action potentials, they play a crucial role in returning the depolarized cell to a resting state.
A microtubule-disrupting pre-emergence herbicide.
Tests for presence of tetK or tetM gene using genomic methods.
When present, either one of these genes confers resistance to tetracycline.
An antibiotic mixture originally isolated from Streptomyces pristinaspiralis.
It is a mixture of compounds from STREPTOGRAMIN GROUP A: pristinamycin IIA and IIB and from STREPTOGRAMIN GROUP B: pristinamycin IA, pristinamycin IB, pristinamycin IC.
To reflect the method by which the decedent's body was disposed.
The etiologic agent of TULAREMIA in man and other warm-blooded animals.
Allantoin is a chemical compound with formula C4H6N4O3.
It is also called 5-ureidohydantoin or glyoxyldiureide.
It is a diureide of glyoxylic acid.
Named after the allantois, an amniote embryonic excretory organ in which it concentrates during development in most mammals except humans and higher apes, it is a product of oxidation of uric acid by purine catabolism.
After birth, it is the predominant means by which nitrogenous waste is excreted in the urine of these animals.
In humans and higher apes, the metabolic pathway for conversion of uric acid to allantoin is not present, so the former is excreted.
Recombinant rasburicase is sometimes used as a drug to catalyze this metabolic conversion in patients.
In fish, allantoin is broken down further (into ammonia) before excretion.
Allantoin is a major metabolic intermediate in many other organisms including plants and bacteria.
Bovine papular stomatitis is a disease caused by a virus of the family Poxviridae and the genus Parapoxvirus.
It occurs worldwide in cattle.
Symptoms include reddish, raised, sometimes ulcerative lesions on the lips, muzzle, and in the mouth.
It usually occurs before the age of two years.
Reinfection is possible because of the short duration of immunity.
Clinically, the disease is mild, but its importance lies in the need to differentiate it from foot-and-mouth disease.
There have been reports of both lesions on the hands of milkers and similar infections in sheep and goats, as well as humans.
Chick pea is a leguminous plant which produces hazel nut-shaped, nut-flavoured seeds.
Chick pea is an important source of proteins, carbohydrates, B-group vitamins and certain minerals, particularly to the populations of developing nations.
India contributes over 75% of the Chick pea production in the world.
In India itself, this legume is consumed mostly as dhal, whole seeds, and several types of traditional, fermented, deep fried, sweetened, and puffed products.
Chick peas are a staple food in the Middle East.
Chick peas are also used extensively in the Mediterranean, especially in Spain.
The use of Chick peas has spread along with ethnic cuisines.
Chick pea may commonly induce symptoms of food allergy in sensitised individuals, in particular in communities where this legume forms part of the staple diet such as India, in the Mediterranean area and Middle East.
The clinical manifestations of the allergy to Chick pea are similar to that for all legumes ranging from oral allergy syndrome, urticaria, angioedema, rhinitis, asthma, to anaphylaxis and death.
A serine endopeptidase that is formed from TRYPSINOGEN in the pancreas.
It is converted into its active form by ENTEROPEPTIDASE in the small intestine.
It catalyzes hydrolysis of the carboxyl group of either arginine or lysine. .
The LMNA gene (lamin A/C) is located on chromosome 1q22.
The nuclear lamina consists of a two-dimensional matrix of proteins located next to the inner nuclear membrane.
The lamin family of proteins make up the matrix and are highly conserved in evolution.
During mitosis, the lamina matrix is reversibly disassembled as the lamin proteins are phosphorylated.
Lamin proteins are thought to be involved in nuclear stability, chromatin structure and gene expression.
Vertebrate lamins consist of two types, A and B. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants.
Mutations in this gene lead to several diseases: Emery-Dreifuss muscular dystrophy, familial partial lipodystrophy, limb girdle muscular dystrophy, dilated cardiomyopathy, Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease, and Hutchinson-Gilford progeria syndrome.
The ASXL1 (additional sex combs like 1, transcriptional regulator) gene is located on chromosome 20 at 20q11.21.
This gene is similar to the Drosophila additional sex combs gene, which encodes a chromatin-binding protein required for normal determination of segment identity in the developing embryo.
The protein is a member of the Polycomb group of proteins, which are necessary for the maintenance of stable repression of homeotic and other loci.
The protein is thought to disrupt chromatin in localized areas, enhancing transcription of certain genes while repressing the transcription of other genes.
The protein encoded by this gene functions as a ligand-dependent co-activator for retinoic acid receptor in cooperation with nuclear receptor coactivator 1.
Mutations in this gene are associated with myelodysplastic syndromes and chronic myelomonocytic leukemia.
Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants.
An extremely stable inhalation anesthetic that allows rapid adjustments of anesthesia depth with little change in pulse or respiratory rate.
Burkholderia is a genus of proteobacteria probably best-known for its pathogenic members: Burkholderia mallei, responsible for glanders, a disease that occurs mostly in horses and related animals; Burkholderia pseudomallei, causative agent of melioidosis; and Burkholderia cepacia, an important pathogen of pulmonary infections in people with cystic fibrosis (CF).
The Burkholderia (previously part of Pseudomonas) genus name refers to a group of virtually ubiquitous gram-negative, motile, obligately aerobic rod-shaped bacteria including both animal/human (see above) and plant pathogens as well as some environmentally-important species.
In particular, B. xenovorans (previously named Pseudomonas cepacia then B. cepacia and B. fungorum) is renowned for their ability to degrade chlororganic pesticides and polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs).
The use of Burkholderia species for agricultural purposes (such as biodegradation, biocontrol and as plant-growth-promoting rhizobacteria) is subject to discussions because of possible pathogenic effects in immuno-compromised people (especially CF-sufferers), e.g., hospital acquired infections.
Due to their antibiotic resistance and the high mortality rate from their associated diseases Burkholderia mallei and Burkholderia pseudomallei are considered to be potential biological warfare agents, targeting livestock and humans.
Lecithin is mostly a mixture of glycolipids, triglycerides, and phospholipids (e.g. phosphatidylcholine, phosphatidylethanolamine, and phosphatidylinositol).
However, in biochemistry, lecithin is usually used as a synonym for pure phosphatidylcholine, a phospholipid which is the major component of a phosphatide fraction which may be isolated from either egg yolk (in Greek lekithos) or soy beans from which it is mechanically or chemically extracted using hexane.
Lecithin is commercially available in high purity as a food supplement and for medical uses.
Poa compressa (Canada bluegrass or flattened meadowgrass) is a perennial flattened meadow grass, similar to Common Meadow-grass, Poa pratensis.
It is native to Europe but it can be found nearly worldwide as an introduced species
Ses i 1 is a 2S albumin storage protein and a major sesame allergen.
Hirudin is a naturally occurring peptide in the salivary glands of medicinal leeches (such as Hirudo medicinalis) that has a blood anticoagulant property.
This is fundamental for the leeches' alimentary habit of hematophagy, since it keeps the blood flowing after the initial phlebotomy performed by the worm on the host's skin.
A bromide ion is a bromine atom with charge of -1.
Compounds with bromine in formal oxidation state -1 are called bromides.
This can include ionic compounds such as caesium bromide or covalent compounds such as sulfur dibromide.
One can test for a bromide ion by adding dilute nitric acid (HNO3), then silver nitrate (AgNO3).
A cream precipitate forms that disappears in concentrated ammonia solution.
Examples:hydrogen bromide (HBr)sodium bromide (NaBr)carbon tetrabromide (CBr4)sulfur dibromide (SBr2).
Pyruvate dehydrogenase (PDH) deficiency is a congenital degenerative metabolic disease resulting from a mutation of the pyruvate dehydrogenase complex (PDC) located on the X chromosome.
Although defects have been identified in all 3 enzymes of the complex, the E1-α subunit is predominantly the culprit.
Malfunction of the citric acid cycle due to PDH deficiency deprives the body of energy and leads to an abnormal buildup of lactate.
PDH deficiency is a common cause of lactic acidosis in newborns and often presents with severe lethargy, poor feeding, tachypnea, and cases of death have occurred.
Leber's congenital amaurosis (LCA) is a rare inherited eye disease that appears at birth or in the first few months of life, and affects around 1 in 80,000 of the population
This is a description of the REMS implementation system, for standardizing the risk evaluation and mitigation strategies (REMS) information for inclusion into pharmacy systems.
The AARS2 gene (alanyl-tRNA synthetase 2, mitochondrial) is located on chromosome 6p21.1.
The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the class-II aminoacyl-tRNA synthetase family.
Aminoacyl-tRNA synthetases play critical roles in mRNA translation by charging tRNAs with their cognate amino acids.
The encoded protein is a mitochondrial enzyme that specifically aminoacylates alanyl-tRNA.
Mutations in this gene are a cause of combined oxidative phosphorylation deficiency 8.
The decapeptide precursor of ANGIOTENSIN II, generated by the action of renin on angiotensinogen.
It has limited pharmacologic activity.
A species of mite that causes SCABIES in humans and sarcoptic mange in other animals.
Specific variants of S. scabiei exist for humans and animals, but many have the ability to cross species and cause disease.
Macroprolactin is a physiologically inactive form of prolactin found in a small proportion of people.
It is prolactin bound to IgG.
Macroprolactin is important, as some laboratory assays will detect it as prolactin, leading to a falsely elevated prolactin result.
This can lead to a misdiagnosis of hyperprolactinaemia in some people, especially those with other symptoms, such as infertility or menstrual problems.
There are certain chemicals, such as polyethylene glycol, that can be added to remove macroprolactin from a suspicious sample.
The sample can then be re-analysed to see if the prolactin levels are still high.
The gold standard test to diagnose macroprolactin is gel-filtration chromatography.
Ecarin clotting time (ECT) is a laboratory test used to monitor anticoagulation during treatment with hirudin, an anticoagulant medication which was originally isolated from leech saliva.
Ecarin, the primary reagent in this assay, is derived from the venom of the saw-scaled viper, Echis carinatus.
In the clinical assay, a known quantity of ecarin is added to the plasma of a patient treated with hirudin.
Ecarin activates prothrombin through a specific proteolytic cleavage, which produces meizothrombin, a prothrombin-thrombin intermediate which retains the full molecular weight of prothrombin, but possesses a low level of procoagulant enzymatic activity.
Crucially, this activity is inhibited by hirudin and other direct thrombin inhibitors, but not by heparin.
The ECT is also unaffected by prior treatment with coumadin or the presence of phospholipid-dependent anticoagulants, such as lupus anticoagulant.
Thus, the ECT is prolonged in a specific and linear fashion with increasing concentrations of hirudin.
Antigen-type substances that produce immediate hypersensitivity (HYPERSENSITIVITY, IMMEDIATE).
Muconic acid is a dicarboxylic acid.
There are three isomeric forms designated trans,trans-muconic acid, cis,trans-muconic acid, and cis,cis-muconic acid which differ by the geometry around the double bonds.
Trans,trans-Muconic acid is a metabolite of benzene in humans.
The determination of its concentration in urine is therefore used as a biomarker of occupational or environmental exposure to benzene.
In contrast to phenol, t,t-muconic acid is a physiological component of urine and thus provides a higher diagnostic specificity than phenol.
Cathepsin G is an enzymatic protein belonging to the peptidase or protease families.
In humans, it is coded by the CTSG gene.
The protein encoded by this gene, a member of the peptidase S1 protein family, is found in azurophil granules of neutrophilic polymorphonuclear leukocytes.
The encoded protease has a specificity similar to that of chymotrypsin C, and may participate in the killing and digestion of engulfed pathogens, and in connective tissue remodeling at sites of inflammation.
Transcript variants utilizing alternative polyadenylation signals exist for this gene.
Obstructive sleep apnea (OSA) is the absence of airflow due to an occlusion in the upper airway that lasts at least 10 seconds in spite of continual effort to breathe.
The Obstructive apnea index (OAI) is calculated by dividing the number of events by the number of hours of sleep.
(OAI values are typically categorized as 5-15/hr = Mild; 15-30/hr = Moderate; and > 30/h = Severe.)
Lindane is an organchlorine insecticide and fumigant that poisons soil-dwelling and plant-eating insects.
The Environmental Protection Agency cancelled the use of lindane in the dairy and agricultural industries and it is no longer produced in the United States.
It is currently an ingredient in lotions, creams, and shampoos to eradicate lice and mites in humans.
Lindane is highly toxic and symptoms of acute exposure in humans include mental and motor retardation, central nervous system excitation, convulsions, respiratory failure, pulmonary edema, dermatitis, loss of balance, grinding of teeth, and hyper-irritability.
Lindane is extremely toxic to fish, bees and aquatic invertebrates.
It persists in fresh and salt water ecosystems.
Lindane enters plants when it is directly applied to them, from contaminated water, and from vapors of lindane.
The gliadin 33 mer refers to a large 33-mer peptide (LQLQPFPQPQLPYPQPQLPYPQPQLPYPQPQPF) from α2-gliadin (position in the amino acid sequence of α2-gliadin: 56-88) that is resistant to cleavage by intestinal peptidase.
It is considered to be the most immunodominant gluten peptide, and testing is used for monitoring for celiac disease .
Beta-Alanine is an amino acid metabolite converted from Anserine.
Formed in vivo by the degradation of dihydrouracil and carnosine.
Since neuronal uptake and neuronal receptor sensitivity to beta-alanine have been shown, the compound may be a false transmitter replacing Gamma-aminobutyric acid(GABA).
Increased with Hyper Beta-Alanemia, a rare genetic disorder.
Information from Online Medical Dictionary.org 2006 12 22.
Next-generation sequencing (NSG) studies have identified mutations in SF3B1 in chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL).
In CLL, SF3B1 mutation is associated with more aggressive disease, survival, and incorporated into prognostic schema to improve the prediction of disease progression.
Mutations in SF3B1 are predominantly subclonal genetic events in CLL, and hence are likely later events in the progression of CLL.
Macroamylase is an enzymatically active complex of amylase with IgG or IgA that is too large to be excreted in the urine.
Macroamylasemia is a benign condition that accounts for 2.5% of all cases of hyperamylasemia.
It is particularly likely in patients with unexplained chronic hyperamylasemia.
Macroamylasemia should be considered in patients with elevated serum amylase and normal urine amylase activity.
The amylase to creatinine clearance ratio will be less than 0.2.
A porphyrin derivative found in the feces and in urine for patients suffering from PCT (porphyria cutanea tarda).
PCT is probably the most common of the porphyrias.
It manifests as vesicle formation in sun-exposed areas, particularly the dorsum of the hands, A finding that is virtually diagnostic of PCT is the presence of isocoproporphyrin in stool.
The E wave and A waves on Doppler ultrasound represent the flow of blood into the ventricle (ventricular filling) during early diastole and atrial contraction, respectively.
The E wave is typically larger than the A wave.
The E wave deceleration time is the time between the E wave peak velocity and its return to baseline in mid-diastole before the start of the A wave.
The deceleration time is a measure of diastolic function that is sensitive to atrial pressure and ventricular relaxation and compliance.
The concentration of the patient's enteral formula.
Cache Valley virus (CVV), a mosquito-borne member of the Bunyamwera serogroup, family Bunyaviridae, genus Orthobunyavirus, is geographically widespread in North America, where it circulates between mosquitoes and mammals.
Human cases are rare, and occur from late spring through early fall.
CVV can cause meningitis and encephalitis, and symptoms include fever, headache, vomiting, and rash.
Hosts include deer, cattle, horses and sheep.
The distance between the incisal edges of the upper and lower central incisors measured along the occlusal plane
Cephalosporin C is the basic structure of many antibiotics (Cefazolin, Cefamandole, etc.)
Direct or indirect contact with chicken allergens may cause sensitization.
Asthma, allergic rhinitis and allergic conjunctivitis may result following exposure to Chicken feathers, epithelial cells or droppings.
The allergic manifestations may present as Bird Fancier's Asthma and as so-called Bird-Egg Syndrome with symptoms such as rhinitis, urticaria and angioedema, and also gastro-intestinal problems.
Contact with Chicken has been reported as a common cause of occupational asthma and allergic rhinitis.
Oxabolone cipionate (or oxabolone cypionate) is an anabolic steroid.
Complement component (3d/Epstein Barr virus) receptor 2, also known as CR2 and CD21, is a protein involved in the complement system.
It binds to C3d.
B cells have CR2 receptors on their surfaces, allowing the complement system to play a role in B-cell activation and maturation complement component receptor-2 (CR2) is the membrane protein on B lymphocytes to which the Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) binds during infection of these cells.
Yefenof et al. (1976) found complete overlapping of EBV receptors and C3 receptors on human B lymphocytes.
The ABCC8 gene (ATP-binding cassette, sub-family C (CFTR/MRP), member 8) is located on chromosome 11p15.1.
The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the superfamily of ATP-binding cassette (ABC) transporters.
ABC proteins transport various molecules across extra- and intra-cellular membranes.
ABC genes are divided into seven distinct subfamilies (ABC1, MDR/TAP, MRP, ALD, OABP, GCN20, White).
This protein is a member of the MRP subfamily which is involved in multi-drug resistance.
This protein functions as a modulator of ATP-sensitive potassium channels and insulin release.
Mutations and deficiencies in this protein have been observed in patients with hyperinsulinemic hypoglycemia of infancy, an autosomal recessive disorder of unregulated and high insulin secretion.
Mutations have also been associated with non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus type II, an autosomal dominant disease of defective insulin secretion.
Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been found for this gene.
A human and animal pathogen causing mesenteric lymphadenitis, diarrhea, and bacteremia.
Hepatocyte is a cell of the main tissue of the liver.
Hepatocytes make up 70-80% of the liver's cytoplasmic mass.
These cells are involved in: protein synthesis, protein storage, transformation of carbohydrates, synthesis of cholesterol, bile salts and phospholipids, detoxification, modification, and excretion of exogenous and endogenous substances.
The hepatocyte also initiates formation and secretion of bile.
Clavulanic acid (rINN is a beta-lactamase inhibitor sometimes combined with penicillin group antibiotics to overcome certain types of antibiotic resistance.
Specifically, it is used to overcome resistance in bacteria that secrete beta-lactamase enzymes, which otherwise inactivate most penicillins.
Most commonly, the potassium salt potassium clavulanate is combined with amoxicillin (co-amoxiclav or ticarcillin.
The name is derived from the Streptomyces clavuligerus microorganisms from which clavulanic acid is derived.
Clavulanic acid is biosynthetically generated from the amino acid arginine.
Mechanism of action:Clavulanic acid has negligble intrinsic antimicrobial activity, despite sharing the -lactam ring that is characteristic of beta-lactam antibiotics.
Phyllostachys edulis is a bamboo species belonging to the genus Phyllostachys.
The edulis part of the Latin name is a reference to the fact that it produces edible shoots.
A drug is any biological substance, synthetic or non-synthetic, that is taken for non-dietary needs.
It is usually synthesized outside of an organism and it must be introduced into an organism to trigger its effect.
Note that natural endogenous biochemicals (such as hormones) can bind to the same receptors and produce the same effect as a drug.
Thus, a drug is simply a definition that helps distinguish whether a molecule is synthesized in vivo or in vitro.
For instance, insulin is a hormone when it is synthesized in vivo by the pancreas but if it is called a drug if it is introduced into the body.
Stroke volume is the volume of blood pumped from one ventricle of the heart during a single beat.
It is the difference between the volume at the end of diastole, at which point the ventricle is done filling and is at its maximum volume (also known as maximum end-diastolic volume), and the end of systole, at which point the ventricle has finished pumping but has not yet started filling (also known as minimum end-systolic volume).
Tyramine (4-hydroxyphenethylamine; para-tyramine, mydrial or uteramin) is an amino acid derived from the amino acid tyrosine that helps regulate blood pressure.
It occurs naturally in the body and is found in certain foods.
The adrenal glands respond to tyramine by sending catecholamine into the bloodstream, along with dopamine, norepinephrine, and epinephrine, providing a boost of energy and, in turn, elevation of blood pressure and heart rate.
Monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) block an enzyme, monoamine oxidase that breaks down excess tyramine.
Blocking this enzyme helps relieve depression.
Most people consume tyramine with no negative side effects, however, people taking MAOIs and other some other medications need to follow a tyramine restricted diet to avoid tyramine build up and dangerous blood pressure spikes.
Tyramine is naturally found in small amounts in protein-containing foods and as these foods age, tyramine levels increase.
Some foods containing tyramine include; strong or aged cheeses, cured meats, smoked or fermented foods (such as sauerkraut, kimchee, caviar, or pickles), sauces (soy sauce, shrimp sauce), and alcoholic beverages such as beer.
Alpha-hydroxyalprazolam ia a metabolite of alprzolam which is metabolized in the liver.
The metabolite, alpha-hydroxyalprazolam, is also pharmacologically active but much less so than the parent compound.
This and other metabolites are later excreted in urine as glucuronides.
Histones are basic nuclear proteins that are responsible for the nucleosome structure of the chromosomal fiber in eukaryotes.
This structure consists of approximately 146 bp of DNA wrapped around a nucleosome, an octamer composed of pairs of each of the four core histones (H2A, H2B, H3, and H4).
The chromatin fiber is further compacted through the interaction of a linker histone, H1, with the DNA between the nucleosomes to form higher order chromatin structures.
This gene is intronless and encodes a replication-dependent histone that is a member of the histone H3 family.
Transcripts from this gene lack polyA tails; instead, they contain a palindromic termination element.
This gene is found in a histone cluster on chromosome 1.
This gene is one of four histone genes in the cluster that are duplicated; this record represents the telomeric copy.
The LYZ gene (lysozyme) is located on chromosome 12q15.
This gene encodes human lysozyme, whose natural substrate is the bacterial cell wall peptidoglycan (cleaving the betaglycosidic linkages between N-acetylmuramic acid and N-acetylglucosamine).
Lysozyme is one of the antimicrobial agents found in human milk, and is also present in spleen, lung, kidney, white blood cells, plasma, saliva, and tears.
The protein has antibacterial activity against a number of bacterial species.
Missense mutations in this gene have been identified in heritable renal amyloidosis.
The ANA nuclear dots pattern, previously called 1 to 6 nuclear dots, coiled body, and Cajal bodies, has low predictive value for any specific disorder.
This pattern is associated with the antigens p80-coilin and survival of motor neuron (SMN) complex.
Thiamine, also known as vitamin B1, is an essential nutrient obtained from food.
Thiamine is highest in meat, legumes, whole grains, and nuts, whereas some foods, including coffee, tea, and raw fish, contain thiamine-destroying enzymes.
Deficiency occurs as a result of inadequate dietary intake, poor absorption, increased loss, and increased utilization.
Deficiency is highest in areas where processed grains are primary food sources and in patients with chronic alcohol abuse.
Thiamine deficiency can lead to cardiovascular, nervous, and immune system disorders.
Thiamine is supplemented via oral, parenteral, subcutaneous, or intramuscular methods.
IgE-mediated immune reactions to supplemented thiamine are rare but can be serious.
Case reports of anaphylactic reactions, including death, have been reported.
Sphere measurement increment is the specificity to which an ophthalmologic device can measure the sphere diopter, typically 0.25 diopters, but may be as small as 0.01 diopters.
For example, a 0.25 diopter increment allows measurement of 0.25, 0.5, 0.75, 1.0 diopters, etc., while a 0.01 diopter increment allows finer measurement to a hundredth of a diopter.
Cephalothin is a first generation cephalosporin antibiotic used to treat infection caused by gram positive bacteria and some gram negative bacilli.
Secretin is a peptide hormone produced in the S cells of the duodenum in the Crypts of Lieberkuhn.
Its overall effect is to regulate the pH of the duodenal contents via the control of gastric acid secretion and buffering with bicarbonate.
Culex pipiens is a species of blood-feeding mosquitoes of the family Culicidae.
It is a vector of some diseases, such as Japanese encephalitis, Meningitis, Urticaria, in US it spreads West Nile virus.
St. Augustine grass (Stenotaphrum secundatum) (also known as Charleston Grass in South Carolina) is a warm season lawn grass that is popular for use in tropical and subtropical regions.
It is a low to medium maintenance grass that forms a thick, carpetlike lawn, crowding out most weeds and other grasses.
An imidazole antifungal agent that is used topically and by intravenous infusion.
Norway Spruce (Picea abies) is a species of spruce native to Europe.
It is also commonly referred to as the European Spruce.
Hippurate tests are qualitative assays used for determining the ability of bacteria to enzymatically hydrolyze sodium hippurate.
Testing is performed to assist in identification of Gardnerella vaginalis, Campylobacter jejuni, Listeria monocytogenes and group B streptococci.
For example, the hippurate test may be used to differentiate bovine haemolytic Group B Streptococcus from human -haemolytic Group B Streptococcus.
The CARD11 gene, located on chromosome 7, encodes the caspase recruitment domain family member 11 protein, which is involved in the development and function of T and B cells.
CARD11 mutations are associated with a variety of disorders, including atopic dermatitis and other allergic conditions including asthma and environmental allergies, other immune disorders, and Omenn syndrome.
Immune disorders associated with CARD11 include specific types of severe combined immunodeficiency (SCID) and B-cell expansion with NF-κB and T-cell anergy (BENTA).
CARD11 mutations are also associated with diffuse large B-cell lymphoma and adult T-cell leukemias and lymphomas.
Polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs) are a class of organic compounds with 1 to 10 chlorine atoms attached to biphenyl and a general chemical formula of C12 H10-x Clx.
Most of the 209 congeners of PCB are colorless, odorless crystals.
The commercial mixtures are clear viscous liquids (the more highly chlorinated mixtures are more viscous, for example, Aroclor 1260 is a sticky resin).
Although the physical and chemical properties vary widely across the class, PCBs have low water solubilities and low vapor pressures.
They are soluble in most organic solvents, oils, and fats.
PCBs are very stable compounds and do not degrade readily.
However, under specific conditions they may be destroyed by chemical, thermal, and biochemical processes.
These processes may occur intentionally (e.g., incineration), unintentionally, or metabolically.
Because of their high thermodynamic stability, all degradation mechanisms are difficult.
The progesterone receptor (PR, also known as NR3C3 or nuclear receptor subfamily 3, group C, member 3), is a protein found inside cells.
It is activated by the steroid hormone progesterone.
In humans, PR is encoded by a single PGR gene residing on chromosome 11q22, it has two main forms, A and B, that differ in their molecular weight
Loprazolam is an imidazobenzodiazepine with anxiolytic, anticonvulsant, hypnotic, sedative and skeletal muscle relaxant properties.
It is indicated for the short-term treatment of insomnia including difficulty in falling asleep and/or frequent nocturnal awakenings.
Loprazolam is recommended as a short-term therapy only, due to adverse events associated with the drug including dependence and withdrawal symptoms.
It is a positive modulator of GABA-A receptor that enhances the inhibitory neurotransmission.
It is not an FDA-approved drug.
The amount of phospholipid included in the aPTT-LA reagent is diminshed relative to the standard aPTT reagent.
A section to capture general risk evaluation and mitigation strategies (REMS) elements, to standardize REMS information for inclusion into pharmacy systems.
Direct antiglobulin test (DAT) using reagent specific for complement C3b and C4d.
Trimethylamine N-oxide (TMAO) is a colorless amine oxide that is produced from choline, betaine, and carnitine by gut microbial metabolism.
Recently, elevated plasma TMAO levels in humans have been associated with risk for serious adverse cardiovascular incidents and death.
Diet, the composition of gut microbial flora, and liver flavin monooxygenase activity all affect the plasma levels of TMAO.
Foods that contain choline, lecithin, and carnitine, including red meat, eggs, dairy products, and salt-water fish, are sources of TMAO.
TMAO alters cholesterol and bile metabolism, activates inflammatory pathways, and promotes foam cell formation.
It is strongly suspected in mediating the development of type-2 diabetes mellitus.
TMAO also increases with decreasing kidney function, and is associated with an increased risk of death in patients with chronic kidney disease.
Treatments being explored to lower TMAO include broad-spectrum antibiotics to eliminate TMAO producing bacteria, the promotion of the growth of bacteria that utilize TMAO as a substrate, and the development of target-specific molecules.
16p11.2 deletion syndrome is a disorder caused by a deletion of a small piece of chromosome 16.
The deletion occurs near the middle of the chromosome at a location designated p11.2.
People with 16p11.2 deletion syndrome usually have developmental delay and intellectual disability.
Antineoplastic antibiotic obtained from Streptomyces peucetius.
It is a hydroxy derivative of DAUNORUBICIN.
Terazosin (marketed as Hytrin) is a selective alpha 1 antagonist used for treatment of symptoms of an enlarged prostate (BPH).
It also acts to lower the blood pressure, and is therefore a drug of choice for men with hypertension and prostate enlargement.
It works by blocking the action of adrenaline on smooth muscle of the bladder and the blood vessel walls.
Newberyite, MgHPO4.3H2O, is a frequent constituent of urine calculi, although not the primary constituent.
Driessens FC, Verbeeck RM.
Boston: CRC Press; 1990:308.
A local anesthetic that has been used in urinary tract disorders.
Its use is limited by problems with toxicity (primarily blood disorders) and potential carcinogenicity.
Aedes is a genus of mosquito originally found in tropical and subtropical zones, but has spread by human activity to all continents excluding Antarctica.
rDer p 10, Tropomyosin, is an important diagnostic tool for evaluating crossreactivity between house dust mites, crustaceans, insects and mollusks.
Der p 10 together with Der p 1 and Der p 2 are complementing the extract based allergen d1 in providing a more detailed sensitization profile of mite allergic patients.
The HOGA1 gene encodes 4-hydroxy-2-oxoglutarate aldolase (HOGA), a mitochondrial enzyme found in the liver and kidney that functions in hydroxyproline metabolism by processing 4-hydroxy-2-oxoglutarate into pyruvate and glyoxylate.
Mutations in the HOGA1 gene result in primary hyperoxaluria type 3 (PH3), a disease presenting in the first decade of life with kidney stones due to hyperexcretion of oxylate.
The two most common HOGA1 mutations, accounting for nearly 75% of all pathogenic variants c.944_946delAGG and c.700+5G>T .
The area of the sensory action potential wave.
Retinol is the alcohol form of Vitamin A. Humans are unable to naturally synthesize retinol, so it must be obtained through digestion of retinol-rich foods.
Retinol aids in vertebrate development, growth, cell differentiation, spermatogenesis and immunity.
This vitamin is predominately stored in the liver as a retinyl ester in the form of retinyl palmitate.
After storage in the liver, the retinol then assimilates into the nearby blood plasma in order to transport the vitamin to its target cell.
The typical concentration of retinol in blood plasma should be between 1 to 2 micromolar per liter.
Specialized forms of antibody-producing B-lymphocytes.
They synthesize and secrete immunoglobulin.
They are found only in lymphoid organs and at sites of immune responses and normally do not circulate in the blood or lymph.
(Rosen et al., Dictionary of Immunology, 1989, p169 & Abbas et al., Cellular and Molecular Immunology, 2d ed, p20)
Fats are the most concentrated form of food energy for the body and aid in the absorption of fat-soluble vitamins, A, D, E and K. Most fats in foods are triglycerides, made up of a unit of glycerol combined with three fatty acids that may be the same or different.
Three major types of naturally occurring fatty acids are: 1) saturated, 2) monounsaturated and 3) polyunsaturated.
A fourth type, trans fatty acids, are made by partial hydrogenation of polyunsaturated oils.
Other dietary fats include phospholipids, phytosterols and cholesterol.
The vertical distance from the tip of the maxillary central incisor to Lip Embrasure (the contact point between upper and lower lips, using superior Stomion).
There are an estimated 1.5 million species of fungi, of which approximately 140,000 might qualify as Mushrooms, which can mean simply fungi with a large, above-ground fruiting body.
However, there are approximately only 14,000 described species of Mushrooms.
The main types of these Mushrooms are agarics (e.g., the Button mushroom), boletes, chanterelles, tooth fungi, polypores, puffballs, jelly fungi, coral fungi, bracket fungi, stinkhorns, and cup fungi.
"True" Mushrooms are classified as Basidiomycota (also known as club fungi), and have a fruiting body known as a basidiocarp, with the stereotypical umbrella shape.
The morel and truffle are classified as Ascomycota ("sac fungi").
"Toadstool" refers to those Mushrooms with poisonous fruiting bodies, and to other minor macrofungi.
Mushroom may uncommonly induce symptoms of food allergy in sensitised individuals.
Fungal components can cause allergic symptoms through inhalation, ingestion or skin contact.
Whereas respiratory allergy is thought to be induced by spores, allergic reactions following ingestion are attributed to other parts of the mushroom.
An echovirus is a type of RNA virus that belongs to the genus Enterovirus of the Picornaviridae family.
Echoviruses are found in the gastrointestinal tract (hence it being part of the enterovirus genus) and exposure to the virus causes other opportunistic infections and diseases.
Replacement fluid is given during intermittent hemodialysis or continuous renal replacement therapy in order to replace ultrafiltrate fluid loss in excess of the fluid removal goal.
Replacement fluid may be infused into the replacment therapy circuit either before or after the dialysis filter.
The RMRP gene (RNA component of mitochondrial RNA processing endoribonuclease) is located on chromosome 9p13.3.
This gene encodes the RNA component of mitochondrial RNA processing endoribonuclease, which cleaves mitochondrial RNA at a priming site of mitochondrial DNA replication.
This RNA also interacts with the telomerase reverse transcriptase catalytic subunit to form a distinct ribonucleoprotein complex that has RNA-dependent RNA polymerase activity and produces double-stranded RNAs that can be processed into small interfering RNA.
Mutations in this gene are associated with cartilage-hair hypoplasia.
Broad waxy casts are waxy casts that are wider than ordinary waxy casts.
Zalcitabine is a Nucleoside Reverse Transcriptase Inhibitor (NRTI) antiretroviral drug used in the treatment of HIV.
Drug resistance reports assist with treatment decisions.
HPV type 68 has been associated with low grade cervical abnormalities, cancer precursors, and anogenital cancers.
Activated natural killer cells are large granular lymphocytes that arise from the bone marrow and play a major role in preventing growth of tumor and virally-infected cells.
They usually lack CD3 expression, but express CD2, CD16, CD56, CD57, and sometimes CD8.
They are to be distinguished from natural killer T cells (NKT cells) which do carry the CD3 marker.
Natural killer cell populations may be increased or decreased with various immunologic abnormalities.
Activated NK cells release cytotoxic (cell-killing) granules which destroy altered cells.
Etacrynic acid or ethacrynic acid, trade name Edecrin, is a loop diuretic used to treat high blood pressure and the swelling caused by diseases like congestive heart failure, liver failure, and kidney failure.
As a diuretic, etacrynic acid can cause frequent urination, but this usually resolves after taking the drug for a few weeks.
Etacrynic acid can also cause low potassium levels, which may manifest as muscle cramps or weakness.
It has also been known to cause reversible or permanent hearing loss (ototoxicity) and liver damage.
On oral administration, it produces diarrhea; intestinal bleeding may occur at higher doses.
Arrowroot, or obedience plant (Maranta arundinacea), is a large perennial herb of genus Maranta found in rainforest habitats.
Arrowroot is also the name of the edible starch from the rhizomes (rootstock) of West Indian arrowroot.
In natural science and signal processing, an artifact is any perceived distortion or other data error caused by the instrument of observation.
For example, a compression artifact in computer science is a noticeable error caused by lossy data compression.
In microscopy, artifacts are sometimes introduced during the processing of samples into slide form.
18-Hydroxycortisol is a derivative of cortisol.
It may be synthesized by zona fasciculata 11-beta hydroxylase in normal human adrenal cortex.,
Overproduction of 18-hydroxycortisol is an aid in the detection of Glucocorticoid-remediable aldosteronism which is an inherited form of mineralocorticoid excess associated with moderate overproduction of aldosterone, in which biochemical and clinical remission is dramatically induced by small amounts of glucocorticoids.
A genus of very small TAPEWORMS, in the family Taeniidae.
The adult form is found in various CARNIVORA but not humans.
The larval form is seen in humans under certain epidemiologic circumstances.
An essential amino acid often added to animal feed.
A hepatic carcinogen whose mechanism of activation involves N-hydroxylation to the aryl hydroxamic acid followed by enzymatic sulfonation to sulfoxyfluorenylacetamide.
It is used to study the carcinogenicity and mutagenicity of aromatic amines.
A histamine H2 receptor antagonist with low toxicity that inhibits gastric acid secretion.
The drug is used for the treatment of duodenal ulcers.
Acetaldehyde is a paraldehyde metabolite.
Paraldehyde is a Schedule IV depressant used most frequently in a hospital setting to treat delirium tremers associated with alcohol withdrawl.
Paraldehyde is sometimes used to treat certain convulsive disorders, including status epilepticus.
Paraldehyde causes the patient's breath to have a strong, characteristic unpleasant odor, which lasts about one day after stopping use of the medicine.
Cariprazine is one of the newest dopamine-serotonin partial agonists, also known as 'atypical' second generation antipsychotics.
Originally approved for acute and maintenance treatment of schizophrenia as well as for acute mania and mixed mania/depression, cariprazine has now been approved for bipolar I depression.
The degree of glandular differentiation or tubule formation in breast carcinoma is one component of the Nottingham histologic grade (NHG), which is a prognostic indicator for patients with breast carcinoma.
The two other components of the NHG are nuclear pleomorphism and mitotic activity.
Less aggressive cancers have more tubule formation, with scores assigned as follows: 1 = greater than 75% of the tumor area contains tubular or glandular structures 2 = 10 to 75% of the tumor area contains tubular structures 3 = less than 10% of the tumor area contains tubular structures
Cytochrome P450 1A2 (CYP1A2)-mediated drug metabolism is highly variable and often based on a patient's genotype.
Genetic testing is performed to identifying patients who are poor, intermediate, extensive, or ultrarapid metabolizers of drugs metabolized by CYP1A2.
The CYP1A2 c.2385G>A polymorphism is associated with decreased activity of the CYP1A2 enzyme.
The distance between Condylion and Gonion
The L180M mutation is associated with Lamivudine, Entecavir, Telvivudine, Tenofovir and Famciclovir resistance.
2-Amino-5-chloropyridine (ACP) is a degradation compound of zopiclone, its stereoisomer eszopiclone, and metabolites and can be used as a surrogate marker for monitoring drug levels in urine.
C-Telopeptide (CTx) is useful to assess bone resorption in patients with metabolic bone disease.
The test is also useful in monitoring therapy to slow or halt osteoporotic bone loss.
Stemphylium solani is a plant pathogen.
The first antibody in the Knops blood group was found in the serum of an O Rh negative woman who had been multiply transfused in previous surgeries.
Her blood was incompatible with all O negative donor units tested until the blood bank technologist Margaret Helgeson, tested her own blood and found it compatible.
Thus, in a report published in 1970, the antibody was named anti-Kna-Helgeson and the blood group called Knops.
The Helgeson cells were used extensively to test other antibodies with previously unknown specificities.
In 1978, another antibody was identified that was compatible with the Helgeson cells but not the Knops-negative cells and this was named McCoy (McCa).
The next antibody reported for the system was named after the first two antibody producers, ie.
Swain and Langley, thus the designation Sla.
The final antibody identified to a high frequency antigen in the Knops system was found in the serum of Mrs. York and was named Yka.
Arginase is an enzyme that hydrolyzes arginine to ornithine and urea.
Two isoforms of arginase have been defined: liver-type arginase (arginase-1) and extrahepatic type arginase (arginase-2).
They differ in their tissue distribution, subcellular localization, immunologic crossreactivity and physiologic function.
Arginase-1, encoded by the ARG1 gene, is a cytosolic enzyme and expressed to some extent in erythrocytes but predominantly in the liver as a component of the urea cycle.
Mercaptopurine (also called 6-mercaptopurine, 6-MP or its brand name Purinethol) is an immunosuppressive drug.
It is used to treat leukemia, pediatric non-Hodgkin's lymphoma, polycythemia vera,psoriatic arthritis, and inflammatory bowel disease such as Crohn's disease and ulcerative colitis.
It has demonstrated some in vitro effectiveness against Mycobacterium paratuberculosis.
The herpes simplex virus (HSV) manifests itself in two common viral infections, each marked by painful, watery blisters in the skin or mucous membranes (such as the mouth or lips) or on the genitals.
The disease is contagious, particularly during an outbreak, and is incurable with present technology.
An infection on the lips is commonly known as a cold sore or fever blister.
These are sometimes confused with canker sores or aphthous ulcers, which have a similar appearance; these appear inside the mouth and are not caused by the herpes simplex virus.
When not symptomatic HSV lies dormant in nerve cells, growing along the axons of the skin during an outbreak.
When the outbreak has passed, the virus 'dies back' along the nerve until it is only present in the nerve body.
The dormancy of the virus within the nerve bodies contributes to the difficulty of treatment.
Anaphylaxis after ingestion of tuna has been reported.
It has been suggested that canned tuna is not as allergenic as cooked and raw tuna.
Vibrio is a genus of Gram-negative bacteria associated with gastroenteritis.
Pathogenic Vibrio species include V. cholerae (causes cholera), V. parahaemolyticus, and V. vulnificus.
Pathogenic species can cause foodborne illness, usually associated with eating undercooked seafood.
The TPP1 gene (tripeptidyl peptidase I) is located on chromosome 11p15.
This gene encodes a member of the sedolisin family of serine proteases.
The protease functions in the lysosome to cleave N-terminal tripeptides from substrates, and has weaker endopeptidase activity.
It is synthesized as a catalytically-inactive enzyme which is activated and auto-proteolyzed upon acidification.
Mutations in this gene result in late-infantile neuronal ceroid lipofuscinosis, which is associated with the failure to degrade specific neuropeptides and a subunit of ATP synthase in the lysosome.
Mercury is a naturally occurring metal which has several forms.
The metallic mercury is a shiny, silver-white, odorless liquid.
If heated, it is a colorless, odorless gas.
Mercury combines with other elements, such as chlorine, sulfur, or oxygen, to form inorganic mercury compounds or "salts," which are usually white powders or crystals.
Mercury also combines with carbon to make organic mercury compounds.
The most common one, methylmercury, is produced mainly by microscopic organisms in the water and soil.
More mercury in the environment can increase the amounts of methylmercury that these small organisms make.
Metallic mercury is used to produce chlorine gas and caustic soda, and is also used in thermometers, dental fillings, and batteries.
Mercury salts are sometimes used in skin lightening creams and as antiseptic creams and ointments.
For various reasons, the patient origin for a particular specimen may be questioned.
When the patient identity for a specimen (especially paraffin-embedded material) needs to be verified, a panel of 12 microsatellite markers that recognize highly variable regions of human DNA PCR-based assay can be used for identification.
The assay compares the genotype for the specimen in question, with the genotype of the patient specimens of known identity.
Matching genotypes on multiple specimens suggest that they are derived from the same patient, whereas differences in genotype suggest different patient sources.
A previous bone marrow transplant from an allogenic donor will interfere with testing.
When HIV-1 enters a cell it first is changed into an inactive HIV-1 DNA provirus.
The HIV-1 provirus combines with the host cell DNA.
When the host cell replicates, the HIV-1 provirus also is replicated which ensures its continued survival.
The quantitative determination of proviral HIV-1 DNA load is determined for antiretroviral treatment, particularly when HIV-1 RNA levels drop below the detectable limits during treatment.
HIV-1 proviral DNA is also a diagnostic marker for HIV-1 infections in newborns born to HIV-1 seropositive women.
A species of protozoan parasite causing MALARIA.
It is the rarest of the four species of PLASMODIUM infecting humans, but is common in West African countries and neighboring areas.
Immature eosinophils are large mononuclear cells with or without an indented nucleus, coarsely clumped chromatin structure, and no nucleoli.
High levels of immature eosinophils are seen in various leukemias, including acute myelogenous leukemia (AML) and acute eosinophilic leukemia (AEL).
Premafloxacin is a fluoroquinolone with enhanced activity against Staphylococcus aureus.
Paliperidone (sold as INVEGA, INVEGA Sustenna) is an atypical antipsychotic developed by Janssen Pharmaceutica.
Invega is an extended release formulation of paliperidone that uses the OROS extended release system to allow for once-daily dosing.
Invega Sustenna (paliperidone palmitate) is a long-acting injectable formulation of paliperidone indicated for once-monthly injection after an initial titration period.
Chemically, paliperidone is the primary active metabolite of the older atypical antipsychotic risperidone (paliperidone is 9-hydroxyrisperidone, i.e. risperidone with an extra hydroxyl group).
It is indicated for the acute and maintenance treatment of schizophrenia.
Dipipanone is an extremely strong opioid used for very severe pain in cases where morphine is indicated but cannot be used due to the patient being allergic to morphine.
The main preparation of the drug commercially available is mixed with cyclizine (Diconal, Wellconal) which has the advantage of reducing nausea, vomiting and histamine release associated with strong opioid therapy.
Chemically, dipipanone belongs to the class of opioids called the 4,4-diphenylheptane-3-ones.
It closely resembles methadone, the only structural difference being the N,N-dimethyl moiety of methadone being replaced with a piperidine ring.
Its use is discouraged because of the abuse risk-
the BNF marks the substance as "less suitable for prescribing" along with other older compounds such as pethidine and pentazocine with unusual abuse patterns.
An insulin resistance score is intended to provide a single risk estimate for the presence or development of insulin resistance based on multiple other factors, usually laboratory testing.
Such scores have been devised based on insulin and C-peptide measurements or lipid level patterns.
White blood cells formed in lymphoid tissue.
The nucleus is round or ovoid with coarse, irregularly clumped chromatin whereas the cytoplasm is typically pale blue with azurophilic (if any) granules.
Most lymphocytes can be classified as either T cells (transit through the thymus), B cells or natural killer cells (NK).
Monoethylglycinexylidide is a metabolite for lidocaine.
Cholesterol is a waxy, fat-like substance that is found in all cells of the body.
Some cholesterol is required to make hormones, vitamin D, and substances that help digest foods.
The body makes all the cholesterol it needs, however cholesterol also is found in some of the foods.
Cholesterol travels through the bloodstream in small packages called lipoproteins.
These packages are made of fat (lipid) on the inside and proteins on the outside.
Two kinds of lipoproteins carry cholesterol throughout the body: low-density lipoproteins (LDL) and high-density lipoproteins (HDL).
Having healthy levels of both types of lipoproteins is important.
A high LDL level leads to a buildup of cholesterol in arteries.
HDL cholesterol carries cholesterol from other parts of the body back to the liver where it is removed.
A potent androgenic steroid and major product secreted by the Leydig cells of the testis.
Its production is stimulated by luteinizing hormone from the pituitary gland.
In turn, testosterone exerts feedback control of the pituitary LH and FSH secretion.
Depending on the tissues, testosterone can be further converted to dihydrotestosterone or estradiol.
An eleven-amino acid neurotransmitter that appears in both the central and peripheral nervous systems.
It is involved in transmission of PAIN, causes rapid contractions of the gastrointestinal smooth muscle, and modulates inflammatory and immune responses.
A species of BORDETELLA that is parasitic and pathogenic.
It is found in the respiratory tract of domestic and wild mammalian animals and can be transmitted from animals to man.
It is a common cause of bronchopneumonia in lower animals.
Orotic acid is a heterocyclic compound and an acid; it is also known as pyrimidinecarboxylic acid.
It was once believed to be part of the vitamin B complex and was called vitamin B13, but it is now known that it is not a vitamin but is instead manufactured in the body by intestinal flora.
Orotic aciduria (a buildup of orotic acid) may be caused by a urea cycle disorder such as ornithine transcarbamoylase deficiency.
A tetraiodofluorescein used as a red coloring in some foods (cherries, fish), as a disclosure of DENTAL PLAQUE, and as a stain of some cell types.
It has structural similarity to THYROXINE.
Florfenicol (marketed by Schering-Plough Animal Health under the trade name Nuflor) is a fluorinated synthetic analog of thiamphenicol.
In the United States, florfenicol is currently indicated for the treatment of bovine respiratory disease (BRD) associated with Mannheimia (Pasteurella) haemolytica, Pasteurella multocida, and Haemophilus somnus, for treatment of bovine interdigital phlegmon (foot rot, acute interdigital necrobacillosis, infectious pododermatitis) associated with Fusobacterium necrophorum and Bacteroides melaninogenicus.
Hemopexin (or haemopexin), also known as HPX, is a protein which in humans is encoded by the HPX gene.
Its levels in serum reflect how much heme is present in the blood.
Therefore, high hemopexin levels indicates that there has been significant degradation of heme containing compounds and hemopexin is made to scavenge any heme it can.
Low hemopexin levels are one of the diagnostic features of a hemolytic anemia.
Product of epinephrine O-methylation.
It is a commonly occurring, pharmacologically and physiologically inactive metabolite of epinephrine.
Leucine is an essential nonpolar hydrophobic amino acid with a nonpolar branched-chain R group.
It is increased with Maple Syrup Urine Disease (MSUD).
(Information from ARUP Laboratories 9/14/06)
MUXF3 from Bromelin (glycoprotein extracted from pineapple) is a pure CCD reagent containing only the MUXF3 carbohydrate epitope, thus avoiding IgE antibody binding to other bromelin epitopes.
The MUXF3 carbohydrate epitope is purified from digested bromelin.
Bromelain (Ana c 1) is a glycoprotein extracted from pineapple, Ananas comosus.
Bromelain has widely been used for checking the cross-reactivity between a glycan and other glycoproteins since its MUXF3 carbohydrate chain is found in many plant proteins.
True allergy to bromelin is also very rare.
ImmunoCAP Allergen o214 Allergen component MUXF3 CCD, Bromelain, is a pure CCD reagent containing only the MUXF3 carbohydrate epitope, thus avoiding IgE antibody binding to other bromelain epitopes.
The MUXF3 carbohydrate epitope is purified from digested bromelain.
Latin Name: Curvularia lunata.
Curvularia is a mold which is associated with allergy in the literature and is frequently reported in mold spore counts.
C. lunata is reported from numerous, mostly monocotyledonous host plants in many tropical countries but also from Canada, the British Isles, France and the Netherlands.
Curvularia is a facultative pathogen and may cause leaf spots and seedling blight.
It is also seen on castor beans, cotton, rice, barley, wheat, and corn.
JA Chapman and S. Williams reported 7.3% of the atopic patients being hypersensitive to Curvularia.
Allergic bronchopulmonary disease caused by Curvularia has been reported.
There appears to be extensive cross-reactivity between Stempbylium and Curvularia and Alternata.
The BRAF gene (B-Raf proto-oncogene, serine/threonine kinase) is located on chromosome 7q34.
This gene encodes a protein belonging to the raf/mil family of serine/threonine protein kinases.
This protein plays a role in regulating the MAP kinase/ERKs signaling pathway, which affects cell division, differentiation, and secretion.
Mutations in this gene are associated with cardiofaciocutaneous syndrome, a disease characterized by heart defects, mental retardation and a distinctive facial appearance.
Mutations in this gene have also been associated with various cancers, including non-Hodgkin lymphoma, colorectal cancer, malignant melanoma, thyroid carcinoma, non-small cell lung carcinoma, and adenocarcinoma of lung.
A pseudogene, which is located on chromosome X, has been identified for this gene.
Loss of the BRAF gene can be determined by various techniques, and loss of the protein, which is an indicator of gene mutation or deletion, can be detected by immunohistochemistry techniques.
Ola B, Afnan, M. et al., Accuracy of sperm-cervical mucus penetration tests in evaluating sperm motility in semen: a systematic quantitative review.
A guanine to adenine change at nucleotide 1691 in the Factor V gene (F5 c.1691G>A) is responsible for Factor V Leiden (FVL), a disorder associated with an increased risk of thrombosis.
Normally, Factor V is a procoagulant and converts prothrombin to thrombin, and activated protein C (APC) regulates coagulation by inhibiting Factor V.
The F5 c.1691G>A mutation eliminates the Factor V cleavage site where APC normally acts.
Patients who are heterozygous for one copy of F5 c.1691G>A have a 7-fold increased lifetime risk of thrombosis, while those who have two copies of the mutation have 20- to 80- times the lifetime risk compared to those that have two normal copies.
The European hornet Vespa crabro, commonly known simply as the "hornet", is the largest European eusocial wasp.
The queen measures 25 to 35 mm (1-1.4 in) long; males and workers are smaller.
In males, as in most members of the Aculeata, the antennae have 13 segments, while in females there are only 12; also as in other aculeates, the male abdomen has seven visible segments, while the female has six; females possess an ovipositor modified into a sting which is not barbed.
See wasp and bee characteristics to help identify similar insects.
Whey protein is the protein contained in whey, the watery portion of milk that separates from the curds when making cheese.
Whey protein is used for improving athletic performance, as a food supplement, as an alternative to milk for people with lactose intolerance, for replacing or supplementing milk-based infant formulas, and for reversing weight loss and increasing glutathione (GSH) in people with HIV disease.
Whey protein is also used for protein allergy, asthma, high cholesterol, obesity and weight loss, preventing allergies in infants, late-stage cancer, and colon cancer.
Pregnenolone sulfate (PregS) is a steroid metabolite with multiple functions.
Pregnenolone sulfate as a neurosteroid modulates various ion channels, transporters, and enzymes.
In addition, pregnenolone sulfate is a source for steroid synthesis pathways and modulates the impact on ion channels.
Recently, pregnenolone sulfate has developed as a biomarker of adrenal disorders .
Hev b 11 is a class 1 chitinase with an N-terminal chitin-binding domain with homology to hevein
Histamine H1 antagonist with sedative action used as a hypnotic and in allergies.
A coloboma is a missing piece in one of the tissues of the eye, typically inferior, due to incomplete closure of the choroid fissure during development.
Colobomas are present since birth and can affect various structures, including the eyelid, lens, iris, macula and optic nerve.
Morazone (Novartrina, Orsimon, Rosimon-Neu, Tarcuzate) is a non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) used as an analgesic.
It produces phenmetrazine as a major metabolite and has been reported to have been abused as a recreational drug in the past.
Dimethylacetamide is the organic compound with the formula CH3C(O)N(CH3)2.
This colorless, water miscible, high boiling liquid is commonly used as a polar solvent in organic chemistry.
DMAc is miscible with most other solvents, although it is poorly soluble in aliphatic hydrocarbons.
Lupins or lupines (North America) are the members of the genus Lupinus in the legume family (Fabaceae).
The genus comprises between 200 and 600 species, with major centers of diversity in South and western North America (subgen.Platycarpos (Wats.)
Kurl.), and in the Mediterranean region and Africa (Subgen.Lupinus).
The CILD2 gene (dynein, axonemal, assembly factor 3) gene is located on chromosome 19q13.4.
The protein encoded by this gene is required for the assembly of axonemal inner and outer dynein arms and plays a role in assembling dynein complexes for transport into cilia.
Defects in this gene are a cause of primary ciliary dyskinesia type 2 (CILD2).
Several transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
Apolipoproteins are a family of proteins involved in cholesterol transport and metabolism.
Apoliprotein E is important in cholesterol transport throughout the body and is encoded by the APOE gene.
The three most common forms of apolipoprotein E are E2, E3 and E4, which are encoded by the APOE allele variants e2, e3 (the wild type form) and e4, respectively.
The E3 form is responsible for typical cholesterol metabolism.
E2 and E4 are associated with alterations in lipid transport and metabolism, and nearly all patients with type III hyperlipoproteinemia (HLP), a familial disorder associated with early atherosclerosis, exclusively make the E2 form of apolipoprotein E. However, 90% of people that only make E2 have cholesterol levels in the normal range, and only about 10% have type III HLP.
E4 may also be a marker for Alzheimer's disease.
Number of snacks consumed.
A snack is defined as food served between regular meals.
Ramelteon, marketed as Rozerem by Takeda Pharmaceuticals North America, is the first in a new class of sleep agents that selectively binds to the MT1 and MT2 receptors in the suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN), versus binding to GABA A receptors, such as with drugs like zolpidem, eszopiclone, and zaleplon.
This variable is used to capture why a patient is included within a study population, i.e. the basis for enrollment in the study.
Categories of enrollment basis may include: 1) insurance, the patient is enrolled in an insurance plan that ties healthcare delivery to the institution, 2) geography, the patient is within a defined geographical area which can only receive care at this institution, 3) algorithmic, a local algorithm is used to identify patients with complete data capture, 4) encounter-based, first and last dates of encounters define the enrollment period, and 5) catchment area, the patient resides in a geographical area with high probability of receiving total care at the institution based upon marketing research.
Direct or indirect contact with animal allergens frequently causes sensitisation.
Animal allergens are major components of farm, home and animal laboratory dust.
The name Swine is applied mainly to domestic animals, though several wild varieties, native to Eurasia and North Africa and introduced to North America and other regions, belong to the same species
Stiripentol (marketed as Diacomit by Laboratoires BIOCODEX) is an anticonvulsant drug used in the treatment of epilepsy.
It is unrelated to other anticonvulsants and belongs to the group of aromatic allylic alcohols.
3-Hydroxydodecanoylcarnitine is a secondary marker for Long-chain L-3-Hydroxy dehydrogenase deficiency, and Trifunctional protein deficiency.
Rumenic acid, also known as bovinic acid, is a conjugated linoleic acid (CLA) found in the fat of ruminants and in dairy products.
It is an omega-7 trans fat.
Its lipid shorthand name is cis-9, trans-11 18:2 acid.
It is formed along with vaccenic acid by biohydrogenation of dietary polyunsaturated fatty acids in the rumen.
It can be considered as the principal dietary form, accounting for as much as 85-90% of the total CLA content in dairy products.
Cytosine is a pyrimidine base found in DNA and RNA that pairs with guanine.
Cytosine is deaminated into uracil by a number of cytosine deaminases.
While cytosine deamination is part of normal physiology and signals certain DNA repair pathways, inappropriate deamination can create DNA mutations and has been associated with the development of certain types of solid tumors and lymphoma.
Chloric acid, HClO3, is an oxoacid of chlorine, and the formal precursor of chlorate salts.
It is a strong acid and oxidizing agent.
Hyper secretion of vasoactive intestinal peptide (VIP) is seen in hypermotility, watery diarrhea, neoplasm of the pancreas, retroperitoneum, or adrenal gland.
The LCA gene (protein tyrosine phosphatase, receptor type, C) gene is located on chromosome 1q31-q32.
The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the protein tyrosine phosphatase (PTP) family.
PTPs are known to be signaling molecules that regulate a variety of cellular processes including cell growth, differentiation, mitosis, and oncogenic transformation.
This PTP contains an extracellular domain, a single transmembrane segment and two tandem intracytoplasmic catalytic domains, and thus is classified as a receptor type PTP.
This PTP has been shown to be an essential regulator of T- and B-cell antigen receptor signaling.
It functions through either direct interaction with components of the antigen receptor complexes, or by activating various Src family kinases required for the antigen receptor signaling.
This PTP also suppresses JAK kinases, and thus functions as a regulator of cytokine receptor signaling.
Alternatively spliced transcripts variants of this gene, which encode distinct isoforms, have been reported.
The European Black Pine (Pinus nigra) is a moderately variable species of pine, occurring across southern Europe from Spain to the Crimea, and also in Asia Minor, Cyprus, and locally in the Atlas Mountains of northwest Africa.
The bulk of the range of the European Black Pine is in Turkey.
An emulsifying agent produced in the LIVER and secreted into the DUODENUM.
Its composition includes BILE ACIDS AND SALTS; CHOLESTEROL; and ELECTROLYTES.
It aids DIGESTION of fats in the duodenum.
This evergreen tree (in a family that includes Cashew, Pistachio and Poison ivy) has been cultivated for over 6,000 years.
It is native to Southeast Asia and Indo-Malaysia.
Some 35 Mangifera species grow in Southeast Asia, but many are now cultivated or have become naturalised in tropical and sub-tropical regions throughout the world.
Mango may result in hypersensitivity reactions in Mango-sensitised individuals.
Adverse reactions may occur as a result of ingestion of Mango or contact with the skin of Mango.
Allergy to Mango as a result of cross-reactivity to Latex has been described.
Among the symptoms reported in individual cases are urticaria, facial swelling, angioedema, pruritis of the eyes and/or mouth, more-generalised pruritis, abdominal cramping, erythema, and dermatitis.
Respiratory complaints include wheezing, dyspnoea, and asthma
A broad-spectrum cephalosporin antibiotic with a very long half-life and high penetrability to meninges, eyes and inner ears.
Phenobarbital is an antiepileptic drug first introduced for clinical use in 1912.
It is still used to treat most seizures except for absence seizure types.
The CYP2C19 enzyme metabolizes phenobarbital to p-hydroxyphenobarbital which is then excreted as glucuronide.
Phenobarbital induces secretion of liver enzymes which can impact the efficacy of drugs administered at the same time.
The most common side effect of phenobarbital in adults with blood levels greater than 40 mg/L is sedation.
Phenobarbital is an active metabolite of primidone and so must also be monitored in patients on primidone.(Tietz Fundamentals of Clinical Chemistry and Molecular Diagnostics, Seventh Edition; Carl A. Burtis; David E. Bruns)
The superior angle formed between the long axis of the maxillary central incisor and the Palatal Plane (Anterior Nasal Spine to Posterior Nasal Spine)
Apolipoproteins are a family of proteins involved in cholesterol transport and metabolism.
Apoliprotein C interacts with very-low density lipoproteins (VLDLs) and has several forms, including C-I, C-II and C-III, which are encoded by the APOC1, APOC2 and APOC3 genes, respectively.
The C-I form mediates the interaction between apolipoprotein E and VLDLs and also binds to free fatty acids and affects their metabolism.
C-II is a component of plasma VLDL, and C-III makes up half of the protein fraction of VLDL .
Homovanillic acid (HOC6H3(OCH3)CH2COOH; synonyms: 3-Methoxy-4-hydroxyphenyl acetic acid; HVA; 4-Hydroxy-3-methoxy-benzeneacetic acid; 4-Hydroxy-3-methoxyphenylacetic acid) is a major catecholamine metabolite.
It is used as a reagent to detect oxidative enzymes, and is associated with dopamine levels in the brain.
A 302-amino-acid fragment in the alpha chain (672-1663) of C3b.
It is generated when C3b is inactivated (iC3b) and its alpha chain is cleaved by COMPLEMENT FACTOR I into C3c, and C3dg (955-1303) in the presence COMPLEMENT FACTOR H. Serum proteases further degrade C3dg into C3d (1002-1303) and C3g (955-1001).
Brucellosis in humans is usually associated with the consumption of unpasteurized milk and soft cheeses made from the milk of infected animals, and with occupational exposure of laboratory workers, veterinarians and slaughterhouse workers.
Some vaccines used in livestock, most notably B. abortus strain 19, also cause disease in humans if accidentally injected.
Brucellosis induces inconstant fevers, sweating, weakness, anaemia, headaches, depression and muscular and bodily pain.
Coccidioides immitis is a pathogenic fungus that resides in the soil.
It, along with its relative Coccidioides posadasii, can cause coccidioidomycosis, and on rare occasions meningitis, mostly in immunocompromised persons.
It is considered a biosafety level 3 pathogen.
The post-ventricular atrial refractory period (PVARP) is the period of time after a ventricular depolarization that atrial electrical activity will not trigger depolarization.
An element with the atomic symbol Be, atomic number 4, and atomic weight 9.01218.
Short exposure to this element can lead to a type of poisoning known as BERYLLIOSIS.
Voriconazole (Vfend®, Pfizer) is a triazole antifungal medication used to treat serious, invasive fungal infections that are generally seen in patients who are immunocompromised.
These include invasive candidiasis, invasive aspergillosis, and emerging fungal infections.
Long thought to either be a Subspecies or color variation of Solenopsis invicta, the black imported fire ant (Solenopsis richteri) is now recognized as its own species with a demonstratively different range and living habits.
The black imported fire ant seems to be less tolerant of cold and a less dominant species than the Red Imported Fire Ant; its northern and southern ranges are also much less extensive.
Black fire ant stings will swell slightly with a white pustules and a large red area around the pustule that is roughly 2-4 inches wide and is painful.
The affected area will start to swell within seconds of being stung.
The venom of a black imported fire ant is roughly the equivalent of a wasp sting.
The sting is less painful than the venom.
Foot-and-mouth disease (FMD, Latin name Aphtae epizooticae), sometimes called hoof-and-mouth disease, is a highly contagious and sometimes fatal viral disease of cattle and pigs.
It can also infect deer, goats, sheep, and other animals with cloven hooves, as well as elephants, rats, and hedgehogs.
Horses are not susceptible to FMD.
Humans are affected only very rarely.
The cause of FMD was first shown to be viral in 1897 by Friedrich Loeffler.
He passed the blood of an infected animal through a fine porcelain-glass filter and found that the fluid that was collected could still cause the disease in healthy animals.
n-Heptane is the straight-chain alkane with the chemical formula H3C(CH2)5CH3 or C7H16.
When used as a test fuel component in anti-knock test engines, a 100% heptane fuel is the zero point of the octane rating scale (the 100 point is a 100% iso-octane).
Octane number equates to the anti-knock qualities of a comparison mixture of heptane and isooctane which is expressed as the percentage of isooctane in heptane and is listed on pumps for gasoline dispensed in the United States and internationally.
A grass species producing pollen, which often induces hay fever, asthma and conjunctivitis in sensitized individuals.
Johnson grass is a robust perennial native to North Africa, South Asia, and southern Europe.
Human adenoviruses (HAdVs) cause diseases of the respiratory, ocular, and gastrointestinal tracts.
Most infections are mild but severe and occasionally fatal infections have been reported in newborns and infants.
PCR-based methods targeting a conserved region of the HAdV hexon gene are used to detect and identify HAdVs.
The RA disease activity score is determined by a multi-biomarker disease activity (MBDA) algorithm, which was developed in a series of studies and clinically validated using the DAS28-CRP as a standard.
The MBDA algorithm is as follows: PTJC = Prediction of Tender Joint Count = −26.72+3.243 × 1/10 − 11.97 × 1/10 + 15.72 × 1/10 + 0.4594 × 1/10 + 3.881 × 1/10 + 0.7388 × 1/10 − 0.2557 × 1/10 + 0.7003 × 1/10 PSJC = Prediction of Swollen Joint Count = −26.63 + 3.232 × 1/10 − 11.93 × 1/10 + 15.67 × 1/10 + 0.4578 × 1/10 + 3.868 × 1/10 + 0.7363 × 1/10 − 0.2548
× 1/10 + 0.6979 × 1/10 PPGS = Prediction of Patient Global Score = -13.489 + 5.474 × 1/10 + 0.486 × 1/10 + 2.246 × 1/10 + 1.684 × 1/10 + 4.14 × 1/10 + 2.292 × 1/10 − 1.898 × 1/10 + 0.028 × 1/10 − 2.892 × 1/10 − 0.506 × 1/10 MBDA score = round(max(min((0.56 × sqrt(max(PTJC,0))
+ 0.28 × sqrt(max(PSJC,0))
+ 0.14 × PPGS + 0.36 × log(CRP/106 + 1))
× 10.53 + 1, 100),1))
The biomarker concentrations in the above formulas are expressed in pg/mL. All concentration values (except CRP) are transformed to the power 1/10 prior to use in the algorithm.
MBDA scores are integers from 1 to 100 where 1 to 29 are considered low disease activity, 30 to 44 are moderate disease activity, and 45 to 100 are high disease activity.
Amorphous head would be defined as an abnormal head shape not otherwise classified with a specific term (such as pyriform, tapering or round).
Tiagabine is an anticonvulsant medication marketed under the brand name Gabitril.
The medication is also used in the treatment of panic disorder, as are a few other anticonvulsants.
It is also used to treat partial seizures in adults and children.
Genetic screening for abnormal CYP1A2 metabolism is focused on the presence of *1C (-3860G>A), *1F (163C>A) and *1K (-729C>T) genetic polymorphisms.
Individuals homozygous for *1F have higher CYP1A2 activity in the presence of CYP1A2 inducers.
The *1C and *1K alleles are associated with decreased CYP1A2 activity with intermediate metabolism when 1 allele is present and slow (poor) metabolism when 2 alleles are present.
Inducers for CYP1A2 activity include smoking, coffee, omeprazole, insulin.
Inhibitors include oral contraceptives.
The genotype results may be used to determine a patient's drug dose adjustment.
Barbiturates were first developed in 1864 by Adolf von Baeyer and were widely distributed by the Farbwerke Fr Bayer and Co in 1904.
Barbiturates offered new treatment to patients with psychiatric and neurological disorders profoundly improving their prognoses.
Barbiturates were also used to treat sleep disorders and were the first drugs to effectively treat epileptic seizures.
Due to safety concerns related to drug dependence and overdose and new safer psychoactive medications barbiturate use sharply declined in the 1950s.
Pentobarbital is a short-acting barbiturate that is used as a sedative, a hypnotic and to induce sleep.
A dideoxynucleoside compound in which the 3'-hydroxy group on the sugar moiety has been replaced by an azido group.
This modification prevents the formation of phosphodiester linkages which are needed for the completion of nucleic acid chains.
The compound is a potent inhibitor of HIV replication, acting as a chain-terminator of viral DNA during reverse transcription.
It improves immunologic function, partially reverses the HIV-induced neurological dysfunction, and improves certain other clinical abnormalities associated with AIDS.
Its principal toxic effect is dose-dependent suppression of bone marrow, resulting in anemia and leukopenia.
Monocyclohexyl methylphosphonate (GF acid) a metabolite of the chemical warfare nerve agent cyclosarin (aka GF).
Cyclosarin or GF (cyclohexyl methylphosphonofluoridate) is an extremely toxic substance that is classified as a weapon of mass destruction by the United Nations.
At room temperature, cyclosarin is a colorless liquid whose odor has been variously described as sweet and musty, or resembling peaches or shellac.
Cyclosarin is more toxic than sarin in humans.
Mutations in the CDKN2A gene are associated with various cancers, including head and neck squamous cell carcinomas (HNSCC), familial atypical multiple mole melanoma (FAMMM) syndrome, breast cancer, lung cancer, and pancreatic cancer.
CDKN2A gene mutations associated with HNSCC are acquired (somatic) and found only in tumor cells, which occur primarily in the lining of the mouth, nose, and throat.
Most of these mutations result in reduced or non-functional p16(INK4a) protein.
CDKN2A mutations associated with FAMMM syndrome are inherited in an autosomal dominant fashion and show reduced penetrance and variable expressivity.
Soluble transferrin receptor (sTfR) is a single polypeptide chain that is derived from transferrin receptor.
The transferring receptor is mostly expressed on cells that require iron.
sTfR concentration in blood correlates with the density of transferrin receptors on red blood cells (RBCs) and the number of RBCs with transferrin receptors being expressed, which closely correlates to iron requirements and RBC proliferation.
sTfR has been proposed as an alternative marker for anemia of chronic disease (ACD), iron-deficiency anemia (IDA), and mixed ACD+IDA rather than the conventional tests, ferritin and transferrin.
Ferritin and transferrin are both acute-phase reactants and are greatly affected by inflammation, infection and malignancy.
sTfR is not affected by chronic disease or inflammation.
sTfR can distinguish between ADC and IDA because sTfR increases in IDA but not in ACD.
The rs1414334 (c.551-3008C>G) variant located in the HTR1C gene is associated with metabolic syndrome in patients treated with antipsychotics, particularly clozapine or risperidone.
Patients who are carriers of the rs1414334 C allele have been found to have an increased risk for the metabolic syndrome.
L-3-Phenyllactic acid (or PLA) is a chiral aromatic compound involved in phenylalanine metabolism.
It is likely produced from phenylpyruvate via the action of lactate dehydrogenase.
The D-form of this organic acid is typically derived from bacterial sources while the L-form is almost certainly endogenous.
Levels of phenyllactate are normally very low in blood or urine.
High levels of PLA in the urine or blood are often indicative of phenylketonuria (PKU) and hyperphenylalaninemia (HPA).
PKU is due to lack of the enzyme phenylalanine hydroxylase (PAH), so that phenylalanine is converted not to tyrosine but to phenylpyruvic acid (a precursor of phenylactate).
In particular, excessive phenylalanine is typically metabolized into phenylketones through, a transaminase pathway route involving glutamate.
Metabolites of this transamination reaction include phenylacetate, phenylpyruvate and phenethylamine.
In persons with PKU, dietary phenylalanine either accumulates in the body or some of it is converted to phenylpyruvic acid and then to phenyllactate through the action of lactate dehydrogenase.
Individuals with PKU tend to excrete large quantities of phenylpyruvate, phenylacetate and phenyllactate, along with phenylalanine, in their urine.
If untreated, mental retardation effects and microcephaly are evident by the first year along with other symptoms which include: unusual irritability, epileptic seizures and skin lesions.
Hyperactivity, EEG abnormalities and seizures, and severe learning disabilities are major clinical problems later in life.
A "musty or mousy" odor of skin, hair, sweat and urine (due to phenylacetate accumulation); and a tendency to hypopigmentation and eczema are also observed.
The neural-development effects of PKU are primarily due to the disruption of neurotransmitter synthesis.
In particular, phenylalanine is a large, neutral amino acid which moves across the blood-brain barrier (BBB) via the large neutral amino acid transporter (LNAAT).
Excessive phenylalanine in the blood saturates the transporter.
Thus, excessive levels of phenylalanine significantly decrease the levels of other LNAAs in the brain.
But since these amino acids are required for protein and neurotransmitter synthesis, phenylalanine accumulation disrupts brain development, leading to mental retardation.
Trans fatty acids (also called trans fats, or trans-unsaturated fatty acids) are manufactured fats created during a process called hydrogenation, that is aimed at stabilizing polyunsaturated oils to prevent them from becoming rancid, and to keep them solid at room temperature.
Most trans fat is a monounsaturated (one double bond) fatty acid.
The shape of trans-fat molecules is more like cholesterol-raising saturated fat than a typical monounsaturated fatty acid.
They may be particularly dangerous for the heart and may pose a risk for certain cancers.
Hydrogenated fats are used in stick margarine, fast foods, commercial baked goods (donuts, cookies, crackers), processed foods, and fried foods.
FISH studies are commonly used to identify deletions of chromosome 13q14 and 17p13, which are known to cause chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL).
Deletion of 13q14 is the most common chromosomal aberration in CLL and correlated with favorable prognosis.
Deletion of 17p13 affects the p53 tumor suppressor gene (TP53) and has been associated with disease progression and reduced survival.
Identification of these deletions is useful for choosing appropriate therapy for patients.
For example, patients with deletions at 17p13 are resistant to standard therapies, such as fludarabine, but will likely benefit from more aggressive therapies, such as bone marrow transplantation.
Conventional cytogenetics (e.g. karyotyping) detects up to 50% of chromosomal aberrations whereas FISH methods detect up to 80% in patients with CLL.
Urbankova, et al. (2012) showed that a subset of potentially significant genomic aberrations in CLL is being missed by cytogenetics and FISH.
They demonstrated that arrayCGH analysis is robust, highly sensitive and specific and might be useful in routine screening of CLL.
Urbankova, et al., suggested using a combination of conventional cytogentics, FISH and arrayCGH to determine the molecular karyotype of CLL since it is an important indicator of disease prognosis.
Human chromogranin A is a secretory protein (439 amino acids) that is produced by neuroendocrine cells.
It is used chiefly as an immunohistochemical marker for normal and neoplastic neuroendocrine tissues and is observed in patients with pheochromocytoma, carcinoid tumor, neuroblastoma, and small cell lung carcinoma.
Seven neuroendocrine tumors that secrete no other hormone markers, referred to as "nonfunctioning" tumors, can sometimes be detected via the serum levels of chromogranin A. Chromogranin A is more stable than serotonin, making its measurement a useful alternative to 5IHAA for the detection of carcinoid tumor.
Prostate cancer patients with elevated levels of chromogranin A correlate with poor prognosis.
P504S, aka alpha-methylacyl coenzyme A racemase (AMACR), is a peroxisomal and mitochondrial enzyme that plays a role in bile acid synthesis and β-oxidation of branched chain fatty acids.
P504S is overexpressed in human prostate cancer with minimal or no expression in normal prostate.
In IHC testing, P504S is used as a specific marker of prostatic adenocarcinoma.
Prostate glands involved in high-grade prostatic intraepithelial neoplasia (PIN) have been found to express P504S, whereas P504S was nearly undetectable in benign glands.
A species of AVIBIRNAVIRUS causing severe inflammation of the bursa of Fabricius in chickens and other fowl.
Transmission is thought to be through contaminated feed or water.
Vaccines have been used with varying degrees of success.
A humoral factor that stimulates the production of thrombocytes (blood platelets).
Thrombopoietin stimulates the proliferation of bone marrow megakaryocytes and their release of blood platelets.
The process is called thrombopoiesis.
Food allergen mix 76 (fx76) contains Brazil nut, coconut, hazelnut and almond IgE antibodies.
Testing for IgE antibodies may be used to help diagnose an allergic disease or the cause of an anaphylactic episode in a patient.
Cimetidine is a histamine H2 -receptor antagonist that inhibits the production of acid in the stomach.
It is largely used in the treatment of heartburn and peptic ulcers.
It is marketed by GlaxoSmithKline under the trade name Tagamet ® (sometimes Tagamet HB ® or Tagamet HB200 ®).
DOET, HECATE, or 2,5-dimethoxy -4-ethyl amphetamine is an analogue of DOM, and is the three-carbon chain homologue to 2C-E. It produces hallucinogenic, psychedelic, and entheogenic effects.
Urea nitrogen is the waste product formed in the liver when proteins are broken down into their respective amino acids.
Once proteins are metabolized in the liver, urea nitrogen is released from the liver to the kidneys via the bloodstream.
The kidneys then filter the urea nitrogen out of the bloodstream into the urine.
Although the kidneys filter out most of the urea nitrogen in the blood, small traces of stable urea nitrogen remain in circulation.
To evaluate kidney function, a blood urea nitrogen test (BUN test) is conducted.
High amounts of urea nitrogen in the BUN test indicate complications with kidney function or decreased blood flow to the kidneys.
A decrease in urea nitrogen in the BUN test is indicative of severe liver disease or malnutrition.
Anaplasma phagocytophilum is a rickettsial bacterium (formerly known as Ehrlichia phagocytophilum or Ehrlichia equi) that infects white blood cells and causes human granulocytic ehrlichiosis (HGE), also called human granulocytic anaplasmosis (HGA).
A. phagocytophilum is a pathogen transmitted to humans by the bite of a tick (i.e., American dog tick, deer tick, and Lone Star tick), and may pose a risk of being transmitted by blood transfusion.
The first symptoms of HGE/HGA normally begin one to two weeks after a tick bite, but a negative test for antibodies during the first seven to 10 days of illness is not always accurate.
Both immunoglobulin M (IgM) and immunoglobulin G (IgG) antibodies usually rise near the end of the first week of illness.
IgM antibodies are less specific than IgG antibodies and more likely to result in a false positive, so a concurrent IgG titer should also be run.
Repeat testing several weeks after the original test, including comparison of antibody titers between the two time periods, is recommended.
For IgG, the first sample typically shows a low or negative result, and the second typically shows a significant (four-fold) increase in IgG antibody levels.
Isofenphos is a colorless oil and organophosphate that is used to control soil-dwelling insects such as white grubs, cabbage root flies, corn roundworms and wireworms.
It is a Restricted Use Pesticide (RUP) that is highly toxic and must have DANGER-POISON printed on its container label.
Isofenphos is an insecticide for vegetables including maize and carrots, for fruits such as bananas, for soils with turfgrass, and for termites in and around buildings.
Symptoms of acute toxicity in humans would likely mimic those of other organophosphates and include: increased secretions, difficulty breathing, diarrhea, urination, pupil contraction, slowness of the heart-very high doses may lead to convulsions and coma.
The primary effect of chronic exposure to isofenphos is the inhibition of acetyl cholinesterase in the circulation which regulates inter-cellular nerve activity.
Fatty acid esters of cholesterol which constitute about two-thirds of the cholesterol in the plasma.
The accumulation of cholesterol esters in the arterial intima is a characteristic feature of atherosclerosis.
Propionylcarnitine is a primary marker for Propionic acidemia, Methylmalonic acidemia (mut), Methylmalonic acidemia (Cbl A, B), Methylmalonic aciduria and homocystinuria, and Succinyl-CoA ligase deficiency.
Secondary marker for Multiple carboxylase deficiency.
3-Methoxytyramine (3-MT), also known as 3-methoxy-4-hydroxyphenethylamine, is a metabolite of the neurotransmitter dopamine formed by the introduction of a methyl group to dopamine by the enzyme catechol-O-methyl transferase (COMT).
3-MT can be further metabolized by the enzyme monoamine oxidase (MAO) to form homovanillic acid (HVA), which is then typically excreted in the urine.
Originally thought to be inactive, 3-MT has recently been shown to act as an agonist of the TAAR1.
Blast cells are precursors of white blood cells and are normally found in bone marrow.
The presence of blasts in the peripheral blood is a marker for hematologic malignancy.
The Orthomyxoviridae are a family of RNA viruses which infect mainly vertebrates (Thogotovirus in ticks, Isavirus in the sea louse).
This family of viruses includes those which cause influenza.
There are three genera of influenza virus, identified by antigenic differences in their nucleoprotein and matrix protein: Influenzavirus A that has been linked to all flu pandemics and is known to infect humans, other mammals and birds (see also avian influenza); Influenzavirus B, known to infect humans and seals; Influenzavirus C, known to infect humans and pigs.
Known flu pandemics include: the Asiatic (Russian) Flu, 1889-90, 1 million dead, possibly due to strain H2N2; the Spanish Flu, 1918-20, 40 million dead, strain H1N1; the Asian Flu, 1957-58, 1 to 1.5 million dead, strain H2N2; and the Hong Kong Flu, 1968-69, 1 million dead, strain H3N2.
In biochemistry, cholinesterase is a term which refers to one of the two enzymes:Acetylcholinesterase (AChE), also known as RBC cholinesterase, erythrocyte cholinesterase, or (most formally) acetylcholine acetylhydrolase, found primarily in the blood and neural synapses Pseudocholinesterase (BChE or BuChE), also known as plasma cholinesterase, butyrylcholinesterase, or (most formally) acylcholine acylhydrolase, found primarily in the liver Both of these compounds catalyze the hydrolysis of the neurotransmitter acetylcholine into choline and acetic acid, a reaction necessary to allow a cholinergic neuron to return to its resting state after activation.
The difference between the two types of cholinesterase has to do with their respective preferences for substrates:the former hydrolyses acetylcholine more quickly; the latter hydrolyses butyrylcholine more quickly.
Perforin-1 is a protein that in humans is encoded by the PRF1 gene.
Defects in this gene cause familial hemophagocytic lymphohistiocytosis type 2 (HPLH2), a rare and lethal autosomal recessive disorder of early childhood.
Perforin is a cytolytic protein found in the granules of CD8 T-cells and NK cells.
Upon degranulation, perforin inserts itself into the target cell's plasma membrane, forming a pore.
The lytic membrane-inserting part of perforin is the MACPF domain.
This region shares homology with cholesterol-dependent cytolysins from Gram-positive bacteria.
Although purified perforin is sufficient to lyse cells at high doses, the biology of perforin itself does not explain the ability of CD8 T-cells and NK cells to induce apoptosis in target cells.
This induction of apoptosis may require at least one other granule protein, granzyme B.
A genus of tick-borne protozoan parasites that infests the red blood cells of mammals, including humans.
There are many recognized species, and the distribution is world-wide.
A species of bacteria found in the marine environment, sea foods, and the feces of patients with acute enteritis.
Integrin, alpha L (antigen CD11A (p180), lymphocyte function-associated antigen 1; alpha polypeptide), also known as ITGAL, is a human gene.
ITGAL encodes the integrin alpha L chain.
Integrins are heterodimeric integral membrane proteins composed of an alpha chain and a beta chain.
This I-domain containing alpha integrin combines with the beta 2 chain (ITGB2) to form the integrin lymphocyte function-associated antigen-1 (LFA-1), which is expressed on all leukocytes.
LFA-1 plays a central role in leukocyte intercellular adhesion through interactions with its ligands, ICAMs 1-3 (intercellular adhesion molecules 1 through 3), and also functions in lymphocyte costimulatory signaling.
CD11a is one of the two components, along with CD18, which form lymphocyte function-associated antigen-1.
Efalizumab acts as an immunosuppressant by binding to CD11a.
Mycophenolic acid (MPA) or mycophenolate is an immunosuppressant drug used to prevent rejection after solid-organ transplant as well as graft-vs-host disease prophylaxis after hematopoietic stem cell transplant.
MPA is highly bound to albumin and the unbound fraction of MPA is approximately 1−3% of the total.
MPA is glucuronidated in the liver, primarily to an inactive metabolite, mycophenolic acid glucuronide, and partially to an active metabolite, mycophenolic acid acyl-glucuronide.
Drug levels of MPA and its metabolites are used to adjust drug dosing and monitor patient adherence.
MPA is commonly marketed under the trade names CellCept (mycophenolate mofetil; Roche) and Myfortic (mycophenolate sodium; Novartis).
A cytosolic ribonucleoprotein complex that acts to induce elongation arrest of nascent presecretory and membrane proteins until the ribosome becomes associated with the rough endoplasmic reticulum.
It consists of a 7S RNA and at least six polypeptide subunits (relative molecular masses 9, 14, 19, 54, 68, and 72K).
T cell receptor excision circles (TRECs) are formed as a byproduct of T cell receptor (TCR) generation in the thymus.
Every T cell has a unique TCR, and formation of TCRs involves DNA rearrangement into different combinations of variable, diversity, and joining sequences.
As these combinations are created, the remaining fragments of excised DNA form circular structures, or TRECs.
The number of TRECs is proportional to T cell production, with low TREC numbers being an indicator of inadequate T cell production.
In newborns, dried blood spot TREC analysis is used to screen for severe combined immunodeficiency as well as other disorders associated with low T cell counts, such as DiGeorge syndrome, trisomy 21, CHARGE syndrome, and congenital leukemia.
Union of two cysteine molecules
Alpha-1-fetoprotein (AFP) is a key variable in prenatal screening for the detection of trisomy 18, 21 and neural tube defect.
It is also the primary tumor marker for nonseminomatous testicular cancers.
Post-operative AFP levels that remain above normal imply residual tumor, and/or tumor recurrence.
AFP can be high in up to 70% of patients with primary hepatocellular carcinoma.
Elevated AFP levels have occasionally been found in association with gastrointestinal tract cancers.
Serum AFP is also elevated in ataxia telangiectasia, hereditary tyrosinemia, teratocarcinoma, and non-cancerous hepatic conditions, such as acute viral hepatitis, chronic active hepatitis and cirrhosis.
Elevation of serum AFP in non-cancerous hepatic diseases is usually transient.
The clot density is a measure of the firmness and structure of a fibrin clot.
It reflects the quantity and biological activity of fibrinogen but is not a direct measurement of fibrin concentration.
Date of supracervical hysterectomy, which is the surgical removal of the fundus of the uterus, leaving the cervix in situ.
Actinobacillus suis is a type of Pasteurellaceae and is a gram-negative, facultative anaerobe.
A. suis is commonly harbored in swine tonsillar tissue, and if it enters the bloodstream can cause sepsis, meningitis, arthritis, and pneumonia.
Although A. suis shares several virulence factors with A. pleuropneumoniae, they cause different diseases and A. suis has a broader host range.
Babesia caballi is one of two parasitic organisms that causes Equine Piroplasmosis.
It is present in South and Center America, the Caribbean (including Puerto Rico), Africa, the Middle East, and Eastern and Southern Europe.
Only the United States, Canada, Australia, Japan, England and Ireland are not considered to be endemic areas.
This disease is a disease of Equidae (horses, donkeys, mules, and zebras).
Although primarily transmitted to horses by ticks, this bloodborne disease has been spread mechanically from animal to animal by contaminated needles.
Aspergillus oryzae, a filamentous fungi also known as koji, is widely used for the production of sake, miso, and soy sauce.
There are two theories as to the origin of A. oryzae.
One suggests that A. oryzae is a domesticated species not found in nature.
The other, more historical theory, is that it is found in the mold growing on ears of rice.
There is evidence supporting A. oryzae's potential to breaking down biodegradable plastic.
Although there have been few case reports of hypersensitivity pneumonitis secondary to Apergillus oryzae, it has been considered that physicians recognize the potential due to increasing globalization of food production.
CSF IgM, IgA, and IgG indexes are indicators of intrathecal immunoglobulin synthesis.
The calculations incorporate the CSF-serum albumin quotient, an indicator of blood-brain-barrier (BBB) function, in order to differentiate whether the immunoglobulins found in the CSF were produced intrathecally or leaked across the BBB.
These immunoglobulin indexes can be useful in the diagnosis of central nervous system infections, neoplasms and primary neurologic diseases such as multiple sclerosis.
They also have the potential to monitor treatment efficacy in conditions such as systemic lupus erythematosus with CNS involvement, in which one study found that all three indexes decreased significantly along with CNS symptoms during successful treatment.
The CSF IgM index is calculated as (CSF IgM/serum IgM)/(CSF albumin/serum albumin), which can also be represented as (CSF IgM x serum albumin)/(serum IgM x CSF albumin).
Metoclopramide (INN) is an antiemetic and gastroprokinetic agent.
Thus it is primarily used to treat nausea and vomiting, and to facilitate gastric emptying in patients with gastroparesis.
It is also a primary treatment for migraine headaches.
It is available under various trade names including Maxolon, Reglan, Degan, Maxeran, Primperan, Pylomid, Cerucal, and Pramin.
The IDH2 (isocitrate dehydrogenase 2, mitochondrial) gene is located on chromosome 15 at 15q26.1.
The IDH2 gene encodes the isocitrate dehydrogenase 2 enzyme found in mitochondria and involved in intermediary metabolism and energy production.
Mutations in the IDH2 gene are associated with various conditions, including 2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria, Maffucci syndrome, Ollier disease, cholangiocarcinoma, acute myeloid leukemia, myelofibrosis, and gliomas.
The mutations associated with Maffucci syndrome, Ollier disease, and other cancer-related conditions are somatic gain-of-function mutations in which the enzyme takes on a new, abnormal function.
Prostaglandins are fatty acids derived from arachidonic acid metabolism.
They are closely related to the Thromboxanes and Leukotrienes.
Prostaglandin E1 is derived mainly from Prostaglandin H1, and is metabolized to Prostaglandin F1a.
Prostaglandin E1 is excreted directly into the urine.
Prostaglandin E1 relaxes the circular muscle of the gut in opposition to Prostaglandin F2a, and also relaxes the lower esophageal sphincter.
Prostaglandin E1 reduces gastric secretion preventing the formation of ulcers.
Prostaglandin E1 is also a potent inhibitor of platelet aggregation.
Prostaglandin E1 stimulates accumulation of cyclic AMP and can stimulate thyroid activity in a manner similar to that of TSH.
Elevated levels have been found in patients with tuberculosis, lung cancer, Medullary Carcinoma of the Thyroid, Carcinoid Syndrome, neuroblastomas, and the Watery Diarrhea Syndrome.
Prostaglandin E1 production and circulating levels are drastically suppressed by aspirin and indomethacin.
Sulfur enters the body mainly as the amino acids, cysteine, and methionine.
The major end-product of sulfur metabolism in humans is inorganic sulfate, which is excreted in urine in the free form together with small amounts of its esters with aromatic compounds.
Sulfur is found in all cells.
Skin and nail disease have been associated with an inadequate intake of sulfur containing amino acids.
Psoriasis and rheumatic condition suffers often respond well to increased intakes of these amino acids.
Foods found to high in sulfate include dried fruits, certain commercial breads, soya flour, and sausages.
Beverages high in sulfate include select juices, beers, wines, and ciders.
Parenteral nutrition also includes various formulations of sulfate.
Charcoal is the blackish residue consisting of impure carbon obtained by removing water and other volatile constituents from animal and vegetation substances.
Charcoal is usually produced by slow pyrolysis, the heating of wood, sugar, bone char, or other substances in the absence of oxygen (see pyrolysis, char and biochar).
The resulting soft, brittle, lightweight, black, porous material resembles coal and is 85% to 98% carbon with the remainder consisting of volatile chemicals and ash.
Primary hyperoxaluria results from the overproduction of a substance called oxalate, which is excreted in the urine and can lead to stones in the form of calcium oxalate.
This can lead to hematuria, urinary tract infections, kidney damage, end stage renal disease, as well as injury to other organs.
There are 3 types 1,2 and 3 resulting from mutations in the AGXT, GRHPR, and HOGA1 genes respectively.
Allergens for serum IgE testing are extracted from ordinary fermented Black tea from Ceylon or a blend of several Black teas derived from various locales, including India, Sri Lanka, Kenya, Malawi and China.
Oolong tea is not included.
Tea may uncommonly induce symptoms of food allergy in sensitised individuals, but is more commonly associated with occupational asthma resulting from the inhalation of Tea dust).
Chronic Tea dust exposure has been reported to increase the prevalence of respiratory symptoms and can result in a significant degree of small airway obstruction in Tea workers
The Strawberry is the sweet red fruit borne on the runner.
Most are native to northern temperate regions.
Strawberry may commonly induce symptoms of food allergy in sensitised individuals, and was reported to be a common cause of allergy in childre.
A nuclear RNA-protein complex that plays a role in RNA processing.
Aleutian Disease (also ADV, for Aleutian Disease Virus) is a highly contagious parvovirus affecting mustelids, causing spontaneous abortion and death in minks and ferrets.
Nafcillin sodium is an beta-lactam antibiotic related to penicillin.
As a beta-lactamase -resistant penicillin, it is used to treat infections caused by Gram-positive bacteria, particularly species of Staphylococci, that are resistant to other penicillins.
Nafcillin can be given either orally (Unipen®) or by injection (Nallpen®) Side effects:As with all penicillins, serious life-threatening allergic reactions can occur.
Milder side effects include: Nausea and vomiting Diarrhea, often due to suppression of normal gastrointestinal bacteria.
Vilazodone (United States trade name Viibryd) is a serotonergic antidepressant developed for the treatment of major depressive disorder.
In 2009 two phase III clinical trials with positive results were completed.
Vilazodone was approved by the FDA for use in the United States to treat major depressive disorder on January 21, 2011.
Lactulose is a synthetic sugar used in the treatment of constipation and hepatic encephalopathy, a complication of liver disease.
It is a disaccharide (double-sugar) formed from one molecule each of the simple sugars (monosaccharides) fructose and galactose.
The commercial syrup used for treatment of constipation is dyed yellow-orange.
It is produced commercially by isomerization of lactose.
Lactulose is used as a test of small intestine bacterial overgrowth syndrome (SIBO).
A large amount of it is given with subsequent testing of molecular hydrogen gas in the breath.
The test is positive if an increase in exhaled hydrogen occurs before that which would be expected by normal colonocyte digestion.
An earlier result has been hypothesized to indicate digestion occurring within the small intestine.
An alternate explanation for differences in results is the variance in small bowel transit time among tested subjects
Gram-negative aerobic rods, isolated from surface water, mud, or thermally polluted lakes or streams.
It is pathogenic for man and it has no known soil or animal sources.
An alphavirus belongs to the group IV Togaviridae family of viruses, according to the system of classification based on viral genome composition introduced by David Baltimore in 1971.
Alphaviruses, like all other group IV viruses have a positive sense single stranded RNA genome.
There are 27 alphaviruses, able to infect various vertebrates such as humans, rodents, fish, birds, and larger mammals such as horses as well as invertebrates.
Transmission between species and individuals occurs mainly via mosquitoes making the alphaviruses a contributor to the collection of Arboviruses - or Arthropod Borne Viruses.
Alphaviruses particles are enveloped have a 70 nm diameter, tend to be spherical (although slightly pleomorphic), and have a 40 nm isometric nucleocapsid.
A monosaccharide in sweet fruits and honey that is soluble in water, alcohol, or ether.
It is used as a preservative and an intravenous infusion in parenteral feeding.
WT1 gene encodes a transcription factor that contains four zinc-finger motifs at the C-terminus and a proline/glutamine-rich DNA-binding domain at the N-terminus.
It has an important role in cell growth and differentiation.
Initially isolated as the gene responsible for Wilms' tumor, it is implicated in several cancers.
WT1 is expressed at high levels in most acute myeloid leukemias, AML (and in ALL too), making it a tumor marker for leukemic blasts.
It is also expressed at high levels in solid tumors.
The WT1 gene expression is used as a specific molecular marker to improve diagnosis, prognosis and follow-up of adult acute myeloid leukemia (AML) patients.
Early decreased expression of WT1 copy number in peripheral blood predicts better outcome for AML patients.
Regarding mutations, multiple transcript variants, resulting from alternative splicing at two coding exons, have been well characterized.
There is also evidence for the use of non-AUG (CUG) translation initiation site upstream of, and in-frame with the first AUG, leading to additional isoforms.
Authors of also provide evidence that WT1 mRNA undergoes RNA editing in human and rat, and that this process is tissue-restricted and developmentally regulated.
Japanese Encephalitis, previously known as Japanese B encephalitis to distinguish it from von Economo's A encephalitis) is a disease caused by the mosquito -borne Japanese Encephalitis Virus.
Japanese Encephalitis Virus is a virus from the family Flaviviridae.
Domestic pigs and wild birds are reservoirs of the virus; transmission to humans may cause severe symptoms.
One of the most important vectors of this disease is the mosquito Culex tritaeniorhynchus.
This disease is most prevalent in Southeast Asia and the Far East.
A plant species of the genus OCIMUM, family LAMIACEAE.
It is a condiment with carminative properties.
Hev b 1, also known as rubber elongation factor (REF), is one of the most important Latex allergens and is a leading cause of Latex IgE-mediated allergy in children with spina bifida.
Hev b 1 has also been shown to be an important allergen in healthcare workers.
The Elder tree and other species of Sambucus comprise fast-growing small trees or large shrubs, 1-4 m tall.
The leaves are compound and contain 5-11 leaflets, with finely or sharply toothed margins, 4-13 cm long and 2-6 cm wide.
Numerous species of Elder tree or Elderberry grow in Europe and North America.
The Elder tree is native to south-eastern Canada and most of the United States except for the Great Basin and the Pacific Northwest, and is found in Britain, Europe, Iraq and Turkey.
Anecdotal evidence suggests that asthma, allergic rhinitis and allergic conjunctivitis are possible following exposure to pollen from this tree; however, few specific studies have been reported to date.
Patients suffering from allergic rhinoconjunctivitis and dyspnoea during summer may exhibit these symptoms after contact with flowers or dietary products of the Elder tree.
Digoxin is a cardiac glycoside extracted from the foxglove plant, digitalis.
It is widely used in the treatment of various heart conditions, namely atrial fibrillation, atrial flutter and congestive heart failure that cannot be controlled by other medication.
Digoxin preparations are commonly marketed under the trade name Lanoxin.
Vesicular stomatitis Indiana virus (VSIV, formerly Indiana 1) and Vesicular stomatitis New Jersey virus (VSNJV) are members of the Vesiculovirus genera of the Rhabdovirus family.
They are primarily zoonotic viruses that affect cattle, horses and pigs.
Natural VSIV infections encompass two steps, cytolytic infections of mammalian hosts and transmission by insects.
The genome is a single molecule of negative-sense RNA that encodes five major proteins: glycoprotein (G), matrix protein (M), nucleoprotein, large protein (L) and phosphoprotein.
Half the genome encodes the L protein, which combines with the phosphoprotein to catalyze replication of the mRNA.
Other members of the Vesiculovirus genera include Cocal virus (formerly Indiana 2) and Vesicular stomatitis Alagoas virus (formerly Indiana 3).
Valine, one of the 20 proteinogenic amino acids, is nutritionally essential.
It is named after the plant valerian.
Foods that are good sources of valine include cottage cheese, fish, poultry, peanuts, sesame seeds, and lentils.
In sickle cell disease, the replacement of an A by T in the beta chain gene of hemoglobin changes the codon GAG (for glutamic acid) to GTG (which encodes valine).
Thus valine, a hydrophic amnio acid, replaces glutamic acid, a hydrophilic amino acid, causing hemoglobin to not fold correctly.
It is also a precursor in the penicillin biosynthetic pathway.
Citations include journal articles, textbooks, and other sources that may be cited as a source of information.
The IGH gene (immunoglobulin heavy locus) is located on chromosome 14q32.33.
Immunoglobulins recognize foreign antigens and initiate immune responses such as phagocytosis and the complement system.
Each immunoglobulin molecule consists of two identical heavy chains and two identical light chains.
This region represents the germline organization of the heavy chain locus.
The locus includes V (variable), D (diversity), J (joining), and C (constant) segments.
During B cell development, a recombination event at the DNA level joins a single D segment with a J segment; this partially rearranged D-J gene is then joined to a V segment.
The rearranged V-D-J is then transcribed with the IGHM constant region; this transcript encodes a mu heavy chain.
Later in development B cells generate V-D-J-Cmu-Cdelta pre-messenger RNA, which is alternatively spliced to encode either a mu or a delta heavy chain.
Mature B cells in the lymph nodes undergo switch recombination, so that the V-D-J gene is brought in proximity to one of the IGHG, IGHA, or IGHE genes and each cell expresses either the gamma, alpha, or epsilon heavy chain.
Recombination of many different V segments with several J segments provides a wide range of antigen recognition.
Additional diversity is attained by junctional diversity, resulting from the random additional of nucleotides by terminal deoxynucleotidyltransferase, and by somatic hypermutation, which occurs during B cell maturation in the spleen and lymph nodes.
Due to polymorphism, the numbers of functional V, J, and D genes differ among individuals and some V, D, J, and C segments may be pseudogenes.
5-hydroxyindoleacetate (5HIAA) is a metabolite of serotonin and is excreted in the urine.
Serotonin is produced in large amounts by carcinoid tumors.
Carcinoid tumors are rare, slow-growing tumors usually found in the lining of the digestive tract or in the lungs.
The serotonin that is released by the carcinoid tumors is metabolized by monoamine oxidase in the liver, lungs, and brain to 5HIAA.
Testing for elevated levels of 5HIAA in 24 hour urine specimens is 73% sensitive and 100% specific for the diagnosis of carcinoid tumors.
A fasting plasma 5HIAA correlates to a urine 5HIAA and other relevant biomarkers.
The Peach (Prunus persica) is a tree native to China that bears a juicy fruit of the same name.
CD16 is an Fc receptor.
It is a cluster of differentiation found on the surface of natural killer cells, neutrophil polymorphonuclear leukocytes, monocytes and macrophages.
It can be used to isolate populations of these cells by antibodies directed towards CD16, utilising FACS (fluorescent-activated cell sorting) or MACS (magnetic-activated cell sorting).
The protein encoded by the BCL6 gene arrangements is a zinc finger transcription factor and contains an N-terminal POZ domain.
This protein acts as a sequence-specific repressor of transcription, and has been shown to modulate the transcription of START-dependent IL-4 responses of B cells.
This protein can interact with a variety of POZ-containing proteins that function as transcription corepressors.
This gene is found to be frequently translocated and hypermutated in diffuse large-cell lymphoma (DLCL), and may be involved in the pathogenesis of DLCL.
Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different protein isoforms have been found for this gene.
Cynodon (Greek Dog-tooth) is a genus of nine species of grasses, native to warm temperate to tropical regions of the old world.
its species are commonly known as Bermuda grass or dog's tooth grass.
Epiandrosterone is a steroid hormone with weak androgenic activity.
It is a natural metabolite of dehydroepiandrosterone via the 5-alpha reductase enzyme.
Epiandrosterone has been shown to naturally occur in most mammals.
Epiandrosterone is naturally produced by the enzyme 5-alpha reductase from the adrenal hormone dehydroepiandrosterone (DHEA).
Epiandrosterone can also be converted from the natural steroids androstanediol via 17β-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase or from androstanedione via 3β-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase.
Synonyms for epiandrosterone are: 3-epiandrosterone; 3β-androsterone; 3β-hydroxyetioallocholan-17-one; 5α-androstan-17-one, 3β-hydroxy-; 5β-androstan-17-one; and 3-β-hydroxyetiollocholan-17-one
The CALR (calreticulin) gene is located on chromosome 19p13.3-p13.2.
Calreticulin is a multifunctional protein that acts as a major Ca(2+)-binding (storage) protein in the lumen of the endoplasmic reticulum.
It is also found in the nucleus, suggesting that it may have a role in transcription regulation.
Calreticulin binds to the synthetic peptide KLGFFKR, which is almost identical to an amino acid sequence in the DNA-binding domain of the superfamily of nuclear receptors.
Calreticulin binds to antibodies in certain sera of systemic lupus and Sjogren patients which contain anti-Ro/SSA antibodies, it is highly conserved among species, and it is located in the endoplasmic and sarcoplasmic reticulum where it may bind calcium.
The amino terminus of calreticulin interacts with the DNA-binding domain of the glucocorticoid receptor and prevents the receptor from binding to its specific glucocorticoid response element.
Calreticulin can inhibit the binding of androgen receptor to its hormone-responsive DNA element and can inhibit androgen receptor and retinoic acid receptor transcriptional activities in vivo, as well as retinoic acid-induced neuronal differentiation.
Thus, calreticulin can act as an important modulator of the regulation of gene transcription by nuclear hormone receptors.
Systemic lupus erythematosus is associated with increased autoantibody titers against calreticulin but calreticulin is not a Ro/SS-A antigen.
Earlier papers referred to calreticulin as an Ro/SS-A antigen but this was later disproven.
Increased autoantibody titer against human calreticulin is found in infants with complete congenital heart block of both the IgG and IgM classes.
The Ambler classification for carbapenemases utilizes four molecular classes - A, B, C and D. The OXA group of β-lactamases occur mainly in Acinetobacter species and are part of molecular class D. The "OXA-like" groups of genes are molecularly similar to and thought to evolve from the original gene for which the group is named.
For example, as of 2014 the blaOXA-23-like group included 19 genes, including including blaOXA-23, -27, -49, and -73..
Many OXA enzymes (OXA-23-like, OXA-24-like, OXA-48-like, OXA-58-like) are considered to be responsible for the worldwide resistance epidemics.
OXA-23-like enzymes have been isolated in carbapenem-resistant Acinetobacter baumannii (CR-AB) in both the US and in China, revealing the importance of national and global efforts to control the spread of CR-AB.
Hexane-2,5-dione, C6H10O2, is a diketone and a toxic metabolite of hexane.
The initial symptoms of chronic hexane toxicity, attributable to hexane-2,5-dione, are tingling and cramps in the arms and legs, followed by general muscular weakness.
In severe cases, atrophy of the skeletal muscles is observed, along with a loss of coordination and problems of vision.
Similar symptoms are observed in animal models.
They are associated with a degeneration of the peripheral nervous system (and eventually the central nervous system), starting with the distal portions of the longer and wider nerve axons.
Test for allergy to the American cockroach.
The allergen code is i206.
Cockroaches produce potent allergens that are an important cause of asthma.
At least 45 allergens have been identified from the American cockroach that contribute to asthma.
IgE mediated reactions to cockroach may induce asthma, allergic rhinitis,allergic conjunctivitis and allergic dermatitis in sensitive patients.
Chloroacetic acid is the organochlorine compound with the formula ClCH2CO2H.
This carboxylic acid is a useful building block in organic synthesis.
Like other chloroacetic acids and related halocarbons, chloroacetic acid is a potentially dangerous alkylating agent.
Chloroacetic acid easily penetrates skin and mucous membranes and interferes with cellular energy production.
Initial dermal exposure to high concentrations (e.g., 80% solution) may not appear very damaging at first, however systemic poisoning may present within hours.
Exposure can be fatal if greater than 6% body surface area is exposed to chloroacetic acid.
The sodium salt does not penetrate the skin as well as the acid but can be as damaging given a longer duration and greater surface area of exposure
A member of the California group of arboviruses (family bunyaviridae) causing fever, severe headache, and nausea in humans in North America.
The SMAD4 gene (SMAD family member 4) is located on chromosome 18q21.1.
This gene encodes a member of the Smad family of signal transduction proteins.
Smad proteins are phosphorylated and activated by transmembrane serine-threonine receptor kinases in response to TGF-beta signaling.
The product of this gene forms homomeric complexes and heteromeric complexes with other activated Smad proteins, which then accumulate in the nucleus and regulate the transcription of target genes.
This protein binds to DNA and recognizes an 8-bp palindromic sequence (GTCTAGAC) called the Smad-binding element (SBE).
The Smad proteins are subject to complex regulation by post-translational modifications.
Mutations or deletions in this gene have been shown to result in pancreatic cancer, juvenile polyposis syndrome, and hereditary hemorrhagic telangiectasia syndrome.
An antiarrhythmic agent which exerts a potential- and frequency-dependent block of sodium channels.
The protein encoded by this MAP2K1 gene is a member of the dual specificity protein kinase family, which acts as a mitogen-activated protein (MAP) kinase kinase.
MAP kinases, also known as extracellular signal-regulated kinases (ERKs), act as an integration point for multiple biochemical signals.
This protein kinase lies upstream of MAP kinases and stimulates the enzymatic activity of MAP kinases upon wide variety of extra- and intracellular signals.
As an essential component of MAP kinase signal transduction pathway, this kinase is involved in many cellular processes such as proliferation, differentiation, transcription regulation and development
D-serine (D-ser) is a major endogenous NMDA receptor co-agonist that specifically activates pre-synaptic NMDA receptors.
D-ser is produced from L-serine by the enzyme serine racemase.
Altered D-ser concentration may be associated with a number of central nervous disorders, including schizophrenia, aging, Alzheimer's disease, anxiety, cerebellar ataxia, Parkinson's disease, neuropathic pain and depression.
Increasing the level of CNS D-ser by direct supplementation, or increasing production or decreasing breakdown of D-ser is being studied as a treatment option for conditions such as schizophrenia and Parkinson's disease.
Among the Vespula species, Vespula vulgaris is the group of yellow jackets that is responsible for causing the greatest proportion of stings.
Yellow jackets (Common wasp) are responsible for inflicting the greatest proportion of stings and have a nasty disposition to sting.
IgE-mediated reactions often present as large local reactions with swelling extending from the sting site.
They sometimes include anaphylactic reactions with common symptoms such as urticaria, flushing and angioedema as well as more serious respiratory and cardiovascular symptoms.
The reactions can be fatal.
Based on the total PChE activity and the percent of inhibition caused by dibucaine.
The CYP17A1 gene (cytochrome P450, family 17, subfamily A, polypeptide 1) is located on chromosome 10q24.3.
This gene encodes a member of the cytochrome P450 superfamily of enzymes.
The cytochrome P450 proteins are monooxygenases which catalyze many reactions involved in drug metabolism and synthesis of cholesterol, steroids and other lipids.
This protein localizes to the endoplasmic reticulum.
It has both 17alpha-hydroxylase and 17,20-lyase activities and is a key enzyme in the steroidogenic pathway that produces progestins, mineralocorticoids, glucocorticoids, androgens, and estrogens.
Mutations in this gene are associated with isolated steroid-17 alpha-hydroxylase deficiency, 17-alpha-hydroxylase/17,20-lyase deficiency, pseudohermaphroditism, and adrenal hyperplasia.
The width of the transthyretin peak at half of the maximum height on a mass spectrum.
The HEXA gene is located on chromosome 15q23 and encodes the alpha subunit of beta-hexosaminidase, which is responsible for the degradation of GM2 gangliosides and other molecules containing terminal N-acetyl hexosamines.
Beta-hexosaminidase is composed of two subunits, alpha and beta, which are encoded by the genes HEXA and HEXB, respectively.
Mutations in both HEXA and HEXB lead to an accumulation of GM2 gangliosides in neurons result in neurodegenerative disorders termed the GM2 gangliosidoses.
HEXA mutations are associated with Tay-Sachs disease (GM2-gangliosidosis type I), and HEXB mutations are associated with Sandhoff disease (GM2-gangliosidosis type II).
In their classic forms, Tay-Sachs and Sandhoff diseases are clinically indistinguishable and are characterized by the onset of progressive neurodegeneration in infancy, followed by paralysis, dementia, and death by age 3.
The posterior-superior angle formed by Condylion to Xi (geometric center of the ramus) to Suprapogonion (Pm-point along curvature of symphysis which changes form convexity to concavity)
Cytokines are any of several regulatory proteins, such as lymphokines or interleukins, released by cells of the immune system and act as intercellulary mediators in the generation of an immune response
Nitroxoline is a urinary antibacterial agent active against susceptible gram-positive and gram-negative organisms commonly found in urinary tract infections.
Following oral administration peak plasma concentrations are achieved in 2-3 hours and maximum urinary concentrations in 4-5 hours.
CD19 (Cluster of Differentiation 19), is a human protein encoded by the CD19 gene.
Lymphocytes proliferate and differentiate in response to various concentrations of different antigens.
The ability of the B cell to respond in a specific, yet sensitive manner to the various antigens is achieved with the use of low-affinity antigen receptors.
This gene encodes a cell surface molecule which assembles with the antigen receptor of B lymphocytes in order to decrease the threshold for antigen receptor-dependent stimulation.
CD19 is expressed on follicular dendritic cells and B cells.
In fact, it is present on B cells from earliest recognizable B-lineage cells during development to B-cell blasts but is lost on maturation to plasma cells.
It primarily acts as a B cell co-receptor in conjunction with CD21 and CD81.
Upon activation, the cytoplasmic tail of CD19 becomes phosphorylated which leads to binding by Src-family kinases and recruitment of PI-3 kinase.
Neutral fat, or acylglycerol, is the general name for an ester of glycerol with one, two, or three fatty acids.
Specific neutral fats include monoacylglycerol (MAG), diacylglycerol (DAG), and triacylglycerol (TAG, also called triglyceride).
The majority of dietary acylglycerols are in the form of TAG, which comprise more than 90% of common edible oils such as olive, soybean, palm, and corn oils.
Cottonseed oil contains the most DAG (9-10%), while the other edible oils contain approximately 1-5%.
MAG is the least common and contributes less than 1% of the total acylglycerol content of cottomseed and olive oils.
Cefazolin, also known as cefazoline or cephazolin, is a first generation cephalosporin antibiotic.
The drug is usually administrated either by intramuscular injection (injection into a large muscle) or intravenous infusion (intravenous fluid into a vein).
Cefazolin is mainly used to treat bacterial infections of the skin.
It can also be used to treat moderately severe bacterial infections involving the lung, bone, joint, stomach, blood, heart valve, and urinary tract.
It is effective only against infections caused by staphylococci and streptococci bacteria, organisms commonly found on normal human skin.
Resistance to cefazolin is seen in several species of bacteria.
The nucleosome is the structural unit of chromatin and consists of a segment of dsDNA coiled around a histone core.
Anti-chromatin autoantibodies, such as those found in patients with systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) fall in to two categories: those directed against individual components of chromatin, such as DNA and histone, and those directed against the intact nucleosome.
Traditionally anti-dsDNA antibodies have been among the ones used for diagnosis and monitoring of SLE, however, studies have shown that for some patients, the nucleosome is the primary antigen in SLE, and anti-nucleosome antibodies may provide a better reflection of disease activity.
A subset of patients who are positive for anti-nucleosome antibodies but negative for anti-dsDNA antibodies may have a milder course of SLE that does not involve the kidneys.
Pyruvate carboxylase deficiency (PCD) is a rare disorder causing developmental delay and failure to thrive at birth or in early infancy.
The body is deprived of energy by malfunction.
In human physiology, base deficit refers to a decrease in the total serum concentration of bicarbonate.
It can be indicative of metabolic acidosis (acidosis describes the abnormal conditions that results from an excess of acid within the blood such as in a case of lactic acidosis due to anaerobic metabolism) or compensatory respiratory alkalosis (alkalosis describes a conditions that results from an excess alkali (base) within the blood).
A base deficit indicates an excess of acid.
It refers to the amount of base needed to titrate a serum pH back to normal (healthy human-arterial blood pH varies between 7.35 and 7.45) when the contribution of respiratory factors is taken out of the equation.
Base deficit is usually reported as a negative base excess.
Therefore a base excess of -5 is a base deficit of 5.
Oval fat bodies are cells with birefringent fat droplets within their cytoplasm.
These cells are usually seen in a context of heavy proteinuria.
Leptospira interrogans serovar Zanoni is one of the serovars associated with "Cane-cutters' Disease" and is found in coastal and tableland areas of Australia.
Rats and small marsupials, including bandicoots, are the main carriers.
The Zanoni serovar has been isolated from dairy cattle and many dairy workers have been infected.
Probable sources of infection include contact with soil, water or other materials contaminated with the urine of an infected animal.
Zanoni is a very common serovar in the North Queensland area of Australia, with many cases reported each year.
Red blood cells clumps can be due to in vivo or in vitro antigen presence on the cell surface.
Fascin is a actin cross-linking protein.
It is a 54-58 kilodalton monomeric actin filament bundling protein originally isolated from sea urchin egg but also found in Drosophila and vertebrates, including humans.
Fascin is spaced at 11 nanometre intervals along the filament.
The bundles in cross section are seen to be hexagonally packed, and the longitudinal spacing is compatible with a model where fascin cross-links at alternating 4 and 5 actins.
It is calcium insensitive and monomeric.
Fascin binds beta-catenin, and colocalizes with it at the leading edges and borders of epithelial and endothelial cells.
The role of Fascin in regulating cytoskeletal structures for the maintenance of cell adhesion, coordinating motility and invasion through interactions with signalling pathways is an active area of research especially from the cancer biology perspective.
Abnormal fascin expression or function has been implicated in breast cancer, colon cancer, esophageal squamous cell carcinoma, gallbladder cancer and prostate cancer.
Alkaloids are a group of naturally occurring chemical compounds which mostly contain basic nitrogen atoms.
This group also includes some related compounds with neutral and even weakly acidic properties.
Also some synthetic compounds of similar structure are attributed to alkaloids.
Beside carbon, hydrogen and nitrogen, molecules of alkaloids may contain sulfur and rarely chlorine, bromine or phosphorus.
Zalcitabine (2'-3'-dideoxycytidine, ddC), also called dideoxycytidine, is a nucleoside analog reverse transcriptase inhibitor (NARTI) sold under the trade name Hivid.
EDDP (2-ethylidene-1,5-dimethyl1-3,3-diphenylpyrrolidine) is a primary metabolite of methadone, a synthetic opioid used for the treatment of opioid dependence.
It is excreted in bile and urine along with other another methadone metabolite, EMPD.
Levels of methadone itself are variable and depend on a patient's urine pH value, dose given, and metabolism.
EDDP levels are less variable and can be detected 4 to 6 hours after methadone use, therefore, EDDP is preferentially used to check for methadone exposure.
A line from Nasion to Frankfort horizontal Plane
An anabolic steroid with some progestational activity and little androgenic effect.
The 4-methanol form of vitamin B6 which is converted to pyridoxal phosphate which is a coenzyme needed for the synthesis of amino acids, neurotransmitters (serotonin, norepinephrine), sphingolipids, aminolevulinic acid.
Although pyridoxine and vitamin B 6 are still frequently used as synonyms, especially by medical researchers, this practice is erroneous and sometimes misleading (EE Snell; Ann NY Acad Sci, vol 585 pg 1, 1990).
The pear tree grows wild in western Asia and eastern Europe with many varieties under cultivation.
Europe is the largest producer with Italy in the lead.
Pear may result in symptoms of food allergy, anaphylaxis, and in particular oral allergy syndrome (OAS), in sensitised individuals.
The APTX gene (aprataxin) is located on chromosome 9p13.3.
This gene encodes a member of the histidine triad (HIT) superfamily.
The encoded protein may play a role in single-stranded DNA repair through its nucleotide-binding activity and its diadenosine polyphosphate hydrolase activity.
Mutations in this gene have been associated with ataxia-ocular apraxia.
Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been identified for this gene.
Toxoplasma gondii is an intestinal coccidium that multiplies within cats as definitive hosts as well as within many other mammals and birds as intermediate hosts.
T. gondii reproduces sexually only in cats.
It infects the intestinal epithelium and produces oocysts which are shed in the feces.
Humans acquire infections most often by consumption of undercooked meat containing tissue cysts or food contaminated by cat feces.
Less than 0.1 percent of human cases are acquired congenitally.
Toxoplasmosis is minor and self-limiting in immunocompetent individuals who may be asymptomatic or present with fever, lymphadenopathy, muscle aches and headache.
Toxoplasma may manifest as encephalitis in immunosuppressed individuals including patients with acquired immune deficiency syndrome (AIDS) and may lead to coma or death.
T. gondii often infects the brain and retina in congenitally infected children.
Mild symptoms include slightly diminished vision while severely diseased children exhibit a pattern of retinochoroiditis, hydrocephalus, convulsions and intracerebral calcifications.
Ocular disease may also occur.
Toxoplasma is diagnosed through serology and upon histologic examination of tissues.
Prevention includes thorough cooking of meat and proper management of cats.
Sulfadiazine and pyrimethamine can be used to treat acute cases.
The ALK gene (anaplastic lymphoma receptor tyrosine kinase) is located on chromosome 2p23.
This gene encodes a receptor tyrosine kinase, which belongs to the insulin receptor superfamily.
This protein comprises an extracellular domain, an hydrophobic stretch corresponding to a single pass transmembrane region, and an intracellular kinase domain.
It plays an important role in the development of the brain and exerts its effects on specific neurons in the nervous system.
This gene has been found to be rearranged, mutated, or amplified in a series of tumours including anaplastic large cell lymphomas, neuroblastoma, and non-small cell lung cancer.
The chromosomal rearrangements are the most common genetic alterations in this gene, which result in creation of multiple fusion genes in tumourigenesis, including ALK (chromosome 2)/EML4 (chromosome 2), ALK/RANBP2 (chromosome 2), ALK/ATIC (chromosome 2), ALK/TFG (chromosome 3), ALK/NPM1 (chromosome 5), ALK/SQSTM1 (chromosome 5), ALK/KIF5B (chromosome 10), ALK/CLTC (chromosome 17), ALK/TPM4 (chromosome 19), and ALK/MSN (chromosome X).
The Rivalta test is a manual test to distinguish transudates from exudates.
The test is performed by adding a drop of the specimen being tested to an acetic acid solution.
If a precipitate forms, then the test is positive, meaning that the fluid is an exudate.
If the fluid dissipates, it is considered negative, meaning the fluid is a transudate.
DNA mismatch repair protein Mlh3 (MLH3) is a DNA mismatch repair protein encoded by the MLH3 gene.
Mutations in the MLH3 gene are associated with hereditary non-polyposis colorectal cancer 7 (HNPCC7).
HNPCC is the most common group of inherited colon cancers in the Western world and is associated with early-onset colon cancer as well as non-colon cancers, including gastrointestinal, urologic, and female reproductive tract cancers.
Serine is classified as an hydroxylic amino acid.
Its levels in urine are elevated in hyperprolinemia, cystinosis, and Hartnup disease.
In enzymology, a methylenetetrahydrofolate dehydrogenase (NAD+) is an enzyme.
The two substrates of this enzyme are 5,10-methylenetetrahydrofolate and NAD+, whereas its 3 products are 5,10-methenyltetrahydrofolate, NADH, and H+.
This enzyme belongs to the family of oxidoreductases, specifically those acting on the CH-NH group of donors with NAD+ or NADP+ as acceptor.
The systematic name of this enzyme class is 5,10-methylenetetrahydrofolate:NAD+ oxidoreductase.
This enzyme is also called methylenetetrahydrofolate dehydrogenase (NAD+).
This enzyme participates in one carbon pool by folate.
The Tamm-Horsfall glycoprotein (THP) also known as uromodulin is a glycoprotein that in humans is encoded by the UMOD gene.
Defects in this gene are associated with the autosomal dominant renal disorders medullary cystic kidney disease-2 (MCKD2) and familial juvenile hyperuricemic nephropathy (FJHN).
These disorders are characterized by juvenile onset of hyperuricemia, gout, and progressive renal failure
The cells called 'round cells' in semen and prostatic fluid are mostly comprised of white blood cells and immature spermatogenic cells.
These 2 cell types are difficult to distinguish by conventional microscopy.
According to the WHO manual of semen analysis, if the round cell estimate in semen exceeds 1 x 10^6 / ml, they should be further analyzed to distinguish origin and type.
This may include peroxidase stain or other leukocyte markers, as elevated numbers of WBCs could indicate infection or inflammation.
Tylvalosin (previously name: acetylisovaleryltylosin, trade name: Aivlosin) is a macrolide antibiotic mainly active against Gram-positive bacteria and mycoplasma.
The drug inhibits protein synthesis by reversibly binding to the 50S ribosome subunit.
Tylvalosin is used in pigs, chickens and pheasants.
In pigs, tylvalosin is used to control enzootic pneumonia (EP) and porcine proliferative enteropathy (PPE) outbreaks.
In chickens and pheasants, the antibiotic is used for the treatment and prevention of respiratory disease associated with Mycoplasma gallisepticum.
Unripe pepper seed (Piper nigrum).
The MYBPC3 gene (myosin binding protein C, cardiac) is located on chromosome 11p11.2.
MYBPC3 encodes the cardiac isoform of myosin-binding protein C. Myosin-binding protein C is a myosin-associated protein found in the cross-bridge-bearing zone (C region) of A bands in striated muscle.
MYBPC3, the cardiac isoform, is expressed exclussively in heart muscle.
Regulatory phosphorylation of the cardiac isoform in vivo by cAMP-dependent protein kinase (PKA) upon adrenergic stimulation may be linked to modulation of cardiac contraction.
Mutations in MYBPC3 are one cause of familial hypertrophic cardiomyopathy.
The AGXT (alanine-glyoxylate aminotransferase) gene provides instructions for making a liver-specific peroxisomal enzyme, alanine-glyoxylate aminotransferase (AGT).
Mutations in the AGXT gene lead to deficient AGT enzyme activity and ultimately primary hyperoxaluira type 1 (PH1), an autosomal recessive disorder in which excessive oxalates are formed by the liver and excreted by the kidneys.
Clinical symptoms included increased urinary oxalate, glycolate, and glycerate excreation, which lead to a wide spectrum of diseases ranging from renal failure in infancy to renal stones in late adulthood.
Enteroaggregative Escherichia coli (EAEC) is a bacteria that causes chronic diarrhea in travelers, children in developing countries, HIV-infected patients, and in farm animals, most commonly piglets and calves.
A low-molecular weight, heat-stable, plasmid-encoded enterotoxin known as EAEC heat-stable enterotoxin 1 (EAST1) is produced by some strains of EAEC.
EAST1 is encoded by the astA gene.
In addition to EAEC, the astA gene has been identified in other diarrheagenic Escherichia coli (EC) pathotypes including enterohemorrhagic E. coli (EHEC), enterotoxigenic E. coli (ETEC), diffusely adherent E. coli (DAEC) and enteropathogenic E. coli (EPEC).
Khuskia oryzae is a plant pathogen.
Oxacillinases, or OXA beta-lactamases, are Class D plasmid-mediated beta-lactamases that hydrolyze oxacillin and related anti-staphylococcal penicillins.
Amino acid substitutions in OXA enzymes can also give the extended-spectrum beta-lactamase (ESBL) phenotype.
While most ESBLs have been found in E. coli, K. pneumoniae, and other Enterobacteriaceae, the OXA-type ESBLs have been found mainly in P. aeruginosa.
The bla(OXA) gene is one of several beta-lactam antibiotic resistance gene markers.
The amount of fruit-based foods consumed, where a serving is the amount of that food customarily considered a serving.
A synthetic pregnadiene compound with anti-aldosterone activity.
A term applied to wild animals that are suitable for human consumption.
Large game meat is called venison.
The most common small game animal is rabbit
Rufinamide is an anticonvulsant medication.
It is used in combination with other medication and therapy to treat Lennox-Gastaut syndrome and various other seizure disorders.
Dextroamphetamine is a powerful psychostimulant which produces increased alertness, wakefulness, energy and self-confidence in association with decreased fatigue and appetite.
It works primarily by inducing the release of the neurotransmitters dopamine and norepinephrine from their storage areas in nerve terminals.
Other common names for dextroamphetamine include d-amphetamine, dexamphetamine, and brand names such as Dexedrine and Dextrostat.
Orange sinensis refers to the citrus tree Citrus sinensis and its fruit.
The orange is an ancient hybrid possibly between pomelo (Citrus maxima) and tangerine (Citrus reticulata).
It is a small tree, growing to about 10 m tall, with thorny shoots and evergreen leaves 4-10 cm long.
The word orange ultimately comes from Sanskrit narang.
Oranges originated in southeast Asia, in either India, Pakistan, Vietnam or southern China.
The fruit of Citrus sinensis is called sweet orange to distinguish it from Citrus aurantium, the bitter orange.
In a number of languages, it is known as a Chinese apple.
A member of the alkali metals.
It has an atomic symbol Cs, atomic number 50, and atomic weight 132.91.
Cesium has many industrial applications, including the construction of atomic clocks based on its atomic vibrational frequency.
The GNS gene is located on chromosome 12 at position 14.3 and encodes the N-acetylglucosamine-6-sulfatase enzyme, which is located in lysosomes and involved in the degradation of glycosaminoglycans (GAGs).
Mutations in the GNS gene cause mucopolysaccharidosis type IIID (MPS IIID), or Sanfilippo syndrome type D, a rare autosomal recessive lysosomal storage disorder.
The mutations lead to a reduction or elimination of functional N-acetylglucosamine-6-sulfatase.
Thymidine (more precisely called deoxythymidine; can also be labelled deoxyribosylthymine, and thymine deoxyriboside) is a chemical compound, more precisely a pyrimidine deoxynucleoside.
Deoxythymidine is the DNA nucleoside T, which pairs with deoxyadenosine (A) in double-stranded DNA.
In cell biology it is used to synchronize the cells in S phase.
Hexachlorobenzene is a stable, white, crystalline chlorinated hydrocarbon.
It is used as a fungicide and in the production of dyes, synthesis of organic chemicals, rubber, and as a preservative for wood.
Hexaachlorobenzene emits carbon monoxide, carbon dioxide, hydrochloric acid and other chlorinated compounds if it is heated to the point of breaking down.
Hexachlorobenzene can inflame the skin, eyes and mucous membrane while recurrent exposure in and around the mouth can cause skin lesions and liver disease.
The hospital discharge status or disposition of the patient having a hospitalization associated with the encounter at the emergency department.
Tybamate (INN) is an anxiolytic.
It is a prodrug for meprobamate in the same way as the better known drug carisoprodol.
It has liver enzyme inducing effects similar to those of phenobarbital but much weaker.
Mutations in the CLCN5 gene have been noted in patients with Dent disease.
Dent disease is characterized by low molecular weight proteinuria, hypercalciuria, kidney stones, calcification of renal tissue and progressive renal failure.
Hexamethylphosphoramide, often abbreviated HMPA, is an organophosphorus compound having the formula 3PO.
This colorless liquid is a useful polar aprotic solvent and additive in organic synthesis.
Galactose-alpha-1,3-galactose, commonly known as "Alpha Gal" is a carbohydrate found in mammalian meat products.
Bites from the lone star tick have been implicated in the development of a delayed allergic response caused by the consumption of mammalian meat products.
Blood tests for IgE response indicating alpha gal allergy have not been approved by the FDA, but are available and are in use.
The allergy most often occurs in the central and southern United States, which corresponds to the distribution of the lone star tick.
The allergic reaction is delayed-onset, occurring several hours after the consumption of mammalian meat products, instead of the typical rapid onset with most food allergies.
After the delayed onset, the allergic response is typical of an IgE mediated allergy (and most food allergies), including hives, angioedema, gastrointestinal upset, and possible anaphylaxis.
N-Acetylaspartic acid, or N-acetylaspartate (NAA), is a derivative of aspartic acid with a formula of C6H9NO5 and a molecular weight of 175.139.
NAA is the second-most-concentrated molecule in the brain after the amino acid glutamate.
It is synthesized in neurons from the amino acid aspartic acid and acetyl-coenzyme A.
The various functions served by NAA are still under investigation, but the primary proposed functions include its being: 1.A neuronal osmolyte that is involved in fluid balance in the brain 2.A source of acetate for lipid and myelin synthesis in oligodendrocytes, the glial cells that myelinate neuronal axons 3.A precursor for the synthesis of the important neuronal dipeptide N-Acetylaspartylglutamate 4.A contributor to energy production from the amino acid glutamate in neuronal mitochondria.
In the brain, NAA is thought to be present predominantly in neuronal cell bodies, where it acts as a neuronal marker.
NAA gives off the largest signal in magnetic resonance spectroscopy of the human brain, and the levels measured there are decreased in numerous neuropathological conditions ranging from brain injury to stroke to Alzheimer's disease.
This fact makes NAA a reliable diagnostic molecule for doctors treating patients with brain damage or disease.
NAA may also be a marker of creativity.
The USH2A gene (Usher syndrome 2A (autosomal recessive, mild)) is located on chromosome 1q41.
This gene encodes a protein that contains laminin EGF motifs, a pentaxin domain, and many fibronectin type III motifs.
The protein is found in the basement membrane, and may be important in development and homeostasis of the inner ear and retina.
Mutations within this gene have been associated with Usher syndrome type IIa and retinitis pigmentosa.
Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
A protein kinase is a kinase enzyme that modifies other proteins by chemically adding phosphate groups to them (phosphorylation).
Phosphorylation usually results in a functional change of the target protein (substrate) by changing enzyme activity, cellular location, or association with other proteins.
The human genome contains about 500 protein kinase genes and they constitute about 2% of all human genes.
Protein kinases are also found in bacteria and plants.
Up to 30% of all human proteins may be modified by kinase activity, and kinases are known to regulate the majority of cellular pathways, especially those involved in signal transduction.
Para-cresol (p-cresol) belongs to a group of protein-bound uremic toxins that are poorly cleared by dialysis and are associated with poor clinical outcomes.
P-cresol has been shown to induce oxidative stress in vitro and subsequent endothelial dysfunction in uremic patients.
Citrulline is an alpha amino acid, produced from ornithine and carbamoyl phosphate during the urea cycle.
Its name is derived from citrullus, the Latin word for watermelon, from which it was first isolated.
Aluminium (Al) is a metal which is distributed throughout our environment.
It has been used since approximately 1887.
Al is widely used in multiple industries and consumer products.
It has no known function in biology.
Al usually enters the human body via cooking utensils or pharmicological agents such as antacids (Al (OH)3 )and antiperspirants.
Aluminum salts are remarkably nontoxic, aluminum sulfate having an LD50 of 6207 mg/kg (oral, mouse), which corresponds to 500 grams for an 80 kg (180 lb) person.
Aluminum is excreted by filtration by the glomeruli of the kidney.
Patients in renal failure lose the ability to clear aluminum, and aluminum toxicity may be a concern.
Aluminum accumulates in the blood and binds to proteins such as albumin, and then distributed throughout the body.
Because aluminum competes with calcium for absorption, increased amounts of dietary aluminum may contribute to the reduced skeletal mineralization (osteopenia) observed in preterm infants and infants with growth retardation.
In very high doses, aluminum is associated with altered function of the blood-brain barrier.
A small percentage of people are allergic to aluminum and experience contact dermatitis, digestive disorders, vomiting or other symptoms upon contact or ingestion of products containing aluminum.
In those without allergies, aluminum is not as toxic as heavy metals, but there is evidence of some toxicity if consumed in amounts greater than 40 mg/day per kg of body mass.
Aluminum is classified as a non-carcinogen by the US Department of Health and Human Services.
In case of suspected sudden intake of a large amount of aluminum, deferoxamine mesylate may be given to help eliminate it from the body by chelation.
(Tietz: Clinical Guide to Laboratory Tests, Fourth Edition)
The mechanism of how the neurotoxicity of AI occurs is still unclear.
Evidence suggests that oxidative stress and inflammatory processes lead to cell death.
As a neurotoxin, Al is considered has been linked to the development of neurodegenerative diseases, including Alzheimer's disease (AD), dementia, Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis (ALS)
Parkinsonism and even Gulf war syndrome.
(for human medicine) Veterinary Medicine: In veterinary medicine, the impact of aluminum toxicity is similar.
An animal proven to have aluminum toxicity from an ingested foreign body had symptoms of muscle twitching and convulsions during exercise, which worsened to weakened limbs and coma until the source of the toxicity was removed.
The EGFR gene (epidermal growth factor receptor) is located on chromosome 7p12.
The protein encoded by this gene is a transmembrane glycoprotein that is a member of the protein kinase superfamily.
This protein is a receptor for members of the epidermal growth factor family.
EGFR is a cell surface protein that binds to epidermal growth factor.
Binding of the protein to a ligand induces receptor dimerization and tyrosine autophosphorylation and leads to cell proliferation.
Mutations in this gene are associated with lung cancer.
Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants that encode different protein isoforms have been found for this gene.
Fibronectin is a high-molecular weight (~440kDa) extracellular matrix glycoprotein that binds to membrane-spanning receptor proteins called integrins.
In addition to integrins, fibronectin also binds extracellular matrix components such as collagen, fibrin and heparan sulfate proteoglycans (e.g. syndecans).
Fibronectin exists as a dimer, consisting of two nearly identical monomers linked by a pair of disulfide bonds.
The fibronectin protein is produced from a single gene, but alternative splicing of its pre-mRNA leads to the creation of several isoforms.
Two types of fibronectin are present in vertebrates: - soluble plasma fibronectin (formerly called "cold-insoluble globulin", or CIg) is a major protein component of blood plasma (300 μg/ml) and is produced in the liver by hepatocytes.
- insoluble cellular fibronectin is a major component of the extracellular matrix.
It is secreted by various cells, primarily fibroblasts, as a soluble dimer and is then assembled into an insoluble matrix in a complex cell-mediated process.
Fibronectin plays a major role in cell adhesion, growth, migration and differentiation, and it is important for processes such as wound healing and embryonic development.
Altered fibronectin expression, degradation, and organization has been associated with a number of pathologies, including cancer and fibrosis.
Human infections with a new avian influenza A (H7N9) virus were first reported in China in March 2013.
Most of these infections are believed to result from exposure to infected poultry or contaminated environments, as H7N9 viruses have also been found in poultry in China.
While some mild illnesses in human H7N9 cases have been seen, most patients have had severe respiratory illness, with about one-third resulting in death.
Rare, limited person-to-person spread of this virus has been identified in China, but there is no evidence of sustained person-to-person spread of H7N9.
The first case outside of China was in Malaysia and was reported on February 12, 2014.
The case was detected in a traveler from an H7N9-affected area of China.
The new H7N9 virus has not been detected in people or birds in the United States as of this writing.
High Dose Thrombin Time (HiTT) is a modification of the standard thrombin time using a larger dose of thrombin to assay unfractionated heparin at doses used during cardio-pulmonary bypass.
Macronutrients are nutrients that provide calories or energy.
Nutrients are substances needed for growth, metabolism, and other body functions.
The four principal classes of macronutrients that provide energy to humans are: carbohydrate, fat, protein and alcohol.
Each of these has numerous sub-types with specific attributes in terms of energy delivery and potential health effects.
Alcohol is not a recommended source of energy but for some individuals may contribute significantly to their daily energy intake and therefore should be considered when doing a comprehensive macronutrient assessment.
Carbamazepine, an anticonvulsant and mood stabilizing drug, is sold under a variety of trade names.
It is used primarily in the treatment of epilepsy and bipolar disorder but is also used to treat schizophrenia and trigeminal neuralgia.
Carbamazepine-10,11 epoxide is the main active metabolite of carbamazepine.
A genus of parasitic nematodes that causes TRICHINOSIS in man and carnivores.
Krebs von den Lungren 6 (KL-6) is a glycoprotein that is a biomarker for connective tissue disorder-related interstitial lung disease (CTD-ILD).
Serum KL-6 levels reflect the degree of damage to type II pneumocytes and are correlated with the severity of ILD as well as progression and prognosis for certain types of CTD-ILD, including that related to systemic sclerosis and inflammatory myositis.
Serum KL-6 is negatively correlated with pulmonary function testing.
Phosphorylation of S6 ribosmal protein (phosho-S6RP, p-S6RP) is a useful biomarker of antibody-mediated rejection (AMR) in transplants.
Studies suggest it is required for biosynthesis of cellular translation (mRNA), growth and proliferation.
Important S6 ribosomal protein phosphorylation sites include several residues (Ser235, Ser236, Ser240, and Ser244) located within the carboxy-terminal region of the S6 protein.
A species of bacteria present in man and many kinds of animals and birds, often causing infertility and/or abortion.
Adenoviruses, medium-sized (90-100 nm), non-enveloped icosohedral viruses with double-stranded DNA, have over 50 immunologically distinct types that cause infections in humans.
Adenoviruses usually cause respiratory illness with symptoms ranging from the common cold to pneumonia, croup, and bronchitis.
Adenoviruses can cause other illnesses such as gastroenteritis, conjunctivitis, cystitis, and less commonly, neurological disease.
Infants and individuals with weakened immune systems are at high risk for severe complications of adenovirus infection and adenoviruses commonly cause acute respiratory illness in military recruits.
Some asymptomatic people infected with adenoviruses have ongoing infections in their tonsils, adenoids, and intestines and can shed the virus for months or years.
The virus can persist outside the body for long periods.
Adenovirus infections can be detected using antigen detection, polymerase chain reaction assay, virus isolation, and serology.
Typing is usually done by hemagglutination-inhibition and/or neutralization with type-specific antisera or by molecular methods.
As of October 2014 there is no adenovirus vaccine for the general public, however an oral vaccine against types 4 and 7 was approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration in March 2011 for U.S. military personnel.
The vaccine is recommended by the U.S. Department of Defense for military recruits entering basic training in order to prevent acute respiratory disease.
Most adenovirus infections are mild and typically require only treatment of symptoms.
Blastocystis hominis (B. hominis) is a microscopic parasite that cause blastocystosis in humans.
Its pathogenicity role is controversial since it is found in the stools of healthy people as well as in the stools of those who have diarrhea, abdominal pain or other gastrointestinal problems.
anti-Lan is IgG and has been associated with transfusion reactions.
A weaker variant of the antigen has also been reported.
The Lan phenotype occurs in about 1 in 20,000 individuals (in blacks, caucasians and Japanese).
The amount of drainage from a pressure ulcer wound.
The following are types of erythrocyte (RBC) inclusion bodies: Pappenheimer bodies- iron granules in RBCs usually due to accelerated erythropoiesis.
Basophilic stippling- represents ribosomes remaining in RBCs usually do to accelerated erythropoiesis.
Heinz bodies- hemoglobin inclusions in RBCs.
Howell-Jolly bodies- nuclear remnants in RBCs usually do to accelerated erythropoiesis.
Lamivudine (2',3'-dideoxy-3'-thiacytidine, commonly called 3TC) is a potent nucleoside analog reverse transcriptase inhibitor (nRTI).
Lamivudine has been used for treatment of chronic hepatitis B at a lower dose than for treatment of HIV.
It improves the seroconversion of e-antigen positive hepatitis B and also improves histology staging of the liver.
Long term use of lamivudine unfortunately leads to emergence of a resistant hepatitis B virus (YMDD) mutant.
Despite this, lamivudine is still used widely as it is well tolerated.
Bacillus atrophaeus (formerly Bacillus subtilis var. niger) is a gram-positive, spore-forming bacteria that produces black pigment.
B. atrophaeus is used as a biological indicator for efficacy testing and sterilization control.
Historically, it has also been used to study spore inactivation, as a plant growth promoter, in treatment evaluation and as a potential adjuvant or vehicle for vaccines.
A long-acting dihydropyridine calcium channel blocker.
It is effective in the treatment of angina pectoris and hypertension.
Zolpidem phenyl-4-carboxylate is the major metabolite of Zolpidem found in urine.
A species of imperfect fungi from which the antibiotic nidulin is obtained.
Its teleomorph is Emericella nidulans.
Found during lymphocytopoiesis, a prolymphocyte is the immediate precursor of a lymphocyte, derived from a lymphoblast.
The TYR gene (tyrosinase) is located on chromosome 11q14.3.
The enzyme encoded by this gene catalyzes the first 2 steps, and at least 1 subsequent step, in the conversion of tyrosine to melanin.
The enzyme has both tyrosine hydroxylase and dopa oxidase catalytic activities, and requires copper for function.
Mutations in this gene result in oculocutaneous albinism, and nonpathologic polymorphisms result in skin pigmentation variation.
The human genome contains a pseudogene similar to the 3' half of this gene.
Porcine circoviruses (PCV) are small nonenveloped DNA viruses containing a single-stranded circular genome.
The viral capsid is icosahedral and approximately 17 nm in diameter.
PCV is a member of the virus family Circoviridae and are the smallest viruses replicating autonomously in eukaryotic cells utilizing the host polymerase for genome amplification.
Two types of PCV have been characterised, PCV1 and PCV2.
PCV1 is typically nonpathogenic in adult pigs, and PCV2 is associated with postweaning multisystemic wasting syndrome (PMWS).
Experimental infection of swine fetuses with PCV1 has been shown to cause hemorrhagic lung lesions.
JC (John Cunningham) virus is a neurotropic polyomavirus and infects up to 65% of all children by the age of 14.
The virus causes no disease unless a patient's immune system is weakened or destroyed, such as in AIDS patients, or in patients who take drugs to prevent rejection of a transplanted organ.
In those patients, JC virus can cause progressive multifocal leukoenchephalopathy (PML), a fatal brain disease due to an infection of the brain and spinal cord.
The JC virus is also the main cause of nephropathy among kidney transplant patients on immunosuppressive therapy.
The JC virus should not be confused with Jamestown Canyon virus, which is sometimes abbreviated the same way, or Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease.
The volume of packed red blood cells in a blood sample.
The volume is measured by centrifugation in a tube with graduated markings, or with automated blood cell counters.
It is an indicator of erythrocyte status in disease.
For example, in anemia the volume is low and in polycythemia it is high.
An enzyme that catalyzes the conversion of urea and water to carbon dioxide and ammonia. .
The Brinkman index (BI) is a measure of cigarette smoke exposure and is used as a predictor of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) in smokers.
In one study, male patients with a BIs of less than 400, 400-799, and 800+ had COPD incidence rate ratios of 1.2 (0.8-1.9), 2.7 (1.9-3.8), and 4.6 (3.3-6.5), respectively.
These results support a strong dose-relationship between cigarette smoking and developing COPD.
Relebactam is a beta-lactamase inhibitor used in conjunction with imipenem for the treatment of Gram-negative bacterial infections.
Relebactam is effective against class A and class C beta-lactamases and has been found to restore imipenem activity against some carbapenem-resistant strains of Klebsiella and Pseudomonas.
A glycoprotein enzyme present in various organs and in many cells.
The enzyme catalyzes the hydrolysis of a 5'-ribonucleotide to a ribonucleoside and orthophosphate in the presence of water.
It is cation-dependent and exists in a membrane-bound and soluble form. .
Fusarium culmorum is a plant pathogen and the causal agent of seedling blight, foot rot, ear blight, stalk rot, common root rot and other diseases of cereals, grasses, and a wide variety of monocots and dicots.
The pressure drop is the difference between the filter pressure and the venous return pressure.
A high pressure drop value is an indication of filter clotting.
Hypochromic anemia is a generic term for any type of anemia in which the red blood cells (erythrocytes) are paler than normal.
(Hypo- refers to less, and chromic means color.)
A normal red blood cell will have an area of pallor in the center of it; in hypochromic cells, this area of central pallor is increased.
This decrease in redness is due to a disproportionate reduction of red cell hemoglobin (the pigment that imparts the red color) in proportion to the volume of the cell.
The most common causes of this kind of anemia are iron deficiency and thalassemia.
Extended-spectrum beta-lactamases (ESBL) are enzymes produced by some bacteria that are resistant to the majority of beta-lactam antibiotics which include the penicillins, cephalosporins and the monobactam aztreonam.
Organisms producing CTX-M type ESBL enzymes have been isolated worldwide with more than 150 enzymes identified.
These enzymes have been classified into seven major phylogenetic groups: CTX-M -1, CTX-M-2, CTX-M-8, CTX-M-9, CTX-M-25, CTX-M-74 and CTX-M-75.
CTX-M-9 group includes CTX-M-14 and CTX-M-15.
The rare ESBL type CTX-M-8 has been isolated in Germany, mainly in E. coli, but also in Salmonella and E. aerogenes.
CTX-M type ESBL have been isolated worldwide and their incidence has increased dramatically and is still increasing leading to a major therapeutic issue.
Currently more than 150 allelic variants of CTX-M have been identified.
The dissemination of these enzymes has caused an increased use of carbapenems for treatment of infections which carries its own risk of furthering resistance.
The genes are named with the prefix "bla", which stands for "beta-lactam", followed by the enzyme, for example, blaCTX-M-1.
The role of urinary oxalate in the formation of calcium oxalate renal stone; as well as the urinary oxalate, glycolate, glyoxylate, and citrate concentrations after acute intravenous administration of various doses of glyoxylate in rats to study oxalate metabolism
Nitrogen balance is the measure of nitrogen input with the nitrogen output subtracted from it.
Nitrogen Balance = Nitrogen intake - Nitrogen loss Blood urea nitrogen can be used in estimating nitrogen balance, as can the urea concentration in urine and feces.
A positive value is often found during periods of growth, tissue repair or pregnancy.
This means that the intake of nitrogen into the body is greater than the loss of nitrogen from the body, so there is an increase in the total body pool of protein.
A negative value can be associated with burns, fevers, wasting diseases and other serious injuries and during periods of fasting.
This means that the amount of nitrogen excreted from the body is greater than the amount of nitrogen ingested.
A negative Nitrogen balance can be used as part of a clinical evaluation of malnutrition.
The MMACHC gene (metabolism of cobalamin associated C) is located on chromosome 1p34.1.
The exact function of the protein encoded by this gene is not known, however, its C-terminal region shows similarity to TonB, a bacterial protein involved in energy transduction for cobalamin (vitamin B12) uptake.
Hence, it is postulated that this protein may have a role in the binding and intracellular trafficking of cobalamin.
Mutations in this gene are associated with methylmalonic aciduria and homocystinuria type cblC.
A poisonous dipyridilium compound used as contact herbicide.
Contact with concentrated solutions causes irritation of the skin, cracking and shedding of the nails, and delayed healing of cuts and wounds.
An acetylcholine receptor (abbreviated AChR) is an integral membrane protein that responds to the binding of the neurotransmitter acetylcholine.
Nicotinic receptors are the primary mediator of the effects of nicotine.
In myasthenia gravis, the receptor at the neuromuscular junction (NMJ) is targeted by antibodies, leading to muscle weakness.
Muscarinic acetylcholine receptors can be blocked by the drugs atropine and scopolamine.
Drugs such as the neuromuscular blocking agents bind reversibly to the nicotinic receptors in the neuromuscular junction and are used routinely in anesthesia. .
Dodecanoylcarnitine is a primary marker for Very long-chain acyl-CoA dehydrogenase deficiency.
Very large BONE MARROW CELLS which release mature BLOOD PLATELETS.
An alkaloid ester extracted from the leaves of plants including coca.
It is a local anesthetic and vasoconstrictor and is clinically used for that purpose, particularly in the eye, ear, nose, and throat.
It also has powerful central nervous system effects similar to the amphetamines and is a drug of abuse.
Cocaine, like amphetamines, acts by multiple mechanisms on brain catecholaminergic neurons; the mechanism of its reinforcing effects is thought to involve inhibition of dopamine uptake.
The Enterobacter cloacae complex comprises of six phenotypically and genetically heterogeneous species: Enterobacter cloacae, Enterobacter asburiae, Enterobacter hormaechei, Enterobacter kobei, Enterobacter ludwigii and Enterobacter nimipressuralis.
Among the Enterobacter spp., the E. cloacae complex species are the most common cause of nosocomial bloodstream infections, with E. cloacae and E. hormaechei most frequently isolated in human clinical specimens.
The emergence and spread of antimicrobial resistance in the E. cloacae complex has increased the complexity of treating infections due to these organisms.
Antibiotic resistance is mediated by production of extended-spectrum β-lactamases (ESBLs) and overproduction of AmpC β-lactamases.
2-Oxoadipic acid is produced from lysine in the cytosol of cells via the saccharopine and the pipecolic acid pathways.
Catabolites of hydroxylysine and tryptophan enter these pathways as 2-aminoadipic- -semialdehyde and 2-oxoadipate, respectively.
In the matrix of mitochondria, 2-oxoadipate is decarboxylated to glutaryl-CoA by the 2-oxoadipate dehydrogenase complex and then converted to acetyl-CoA. 2-Oxoadipic aciduria is an in-born error of metabolism of lysine, tryptophan, and hydroxylysine, in which abnormal quantities of 2-aminoadipic acid are found in body fluids along with 2-oxoadipic acid.
Patients with 2-Oxoadipic acidemias are mentally retarded with hypotonia or seizures.
2-Oxoadipic Aciduria can occur in patients with Kearns-Sayre Syndrome, a progressive disorder with onset prior to 20 years of age in which multiple organ systems are affected, including progressive external ophthalmoplegia, retinopathy, and the age of onset, and these are associated classically with abnormalities in cardiac conduction, cerebellar signs, and elevated cerebrospinal fluid protein., ,
Double-positive (DP) T cells are an unusual type of mature T lymphocyte that expresses both CD4 and CD8 (in addition to CD3, which defines a cell as a T cell).
Typically, T cells express CD3 plus either CD4 or CD8, which identifies them as helper or cytotoxic T cells, respectively.
DP T cells have been described in patients with certain conditions, such as multiple sclerosis, myasthenia gravis, rheumatoid arthritis, systemic sclerosis, Kawasaki disease, and HIV and EBV infections, but their exact role or function is not well understood.
A vasoconstrictor found in ergot of Central Europe.
It is an alpha-1 selective adrenergic agonist and is commonly used in the treatment of migraine disorders.
Distance from the Stomion inferius to the Soft Tissue Menton
Bartonella bacilliformis is a proteobacterium, Gram negative aerobic, pleomorphic, flagellated, motile, coccobacillary, 2-3 μm large and 0.2-0.5 μm wide and facultative intracellular bacterium.
Bartonella bacilliformis is the etiologic agent of Carrion's disease or Oroya fever (acute phase of infection) and Verruga peruana or Peruvian wart (chronic phase of infection).
The acute phase of the disease is a life threatening disease characterized by massive invasion of bartonella to human red blood cells and consequently an acute hemolysis and fever.
If the infection is not treated the case fatality rate is 40 to 85%.
Patients in this phase of the infection can be complicated by overwhelming infections primarily by enterobacterias (Salmonella spp) and parasites (Toxoplasma gondii, Pneumocystis jirovecci).
The chronic phase is characterized by benign eruptive lesions that are pruritic and bleeding, and other symptoms like malaise and osteoarticular pain.
Bartonella can be isolated from blood cultures and secretion of the lesions in people from endemic areas.
Oregano, comprising the species of the genus Origanum, from the Mediterranean region of Europe and Asia, is an extremely variable plant grown since ancient times for ornamental, culinary and medicinal uses.
Oregano may uncommonly induce symptoms of food allergy in sensitised individuals.
The ABCB1 gene (ATP-binding cassette, sub-family B (MDR/TAP), member 1) is located on chromosome 7q21.12.
The membrane-associated protein encoded by this gene is a member of the superfamily of ATP-binding cassette (ABC) transporters.
ABC proteins transport various molecules across extra- and intra-cellular membranes.
ABC genes are divided into seven distinct subfamilies (ABC1, MDR/TAP, MRP, ALD, OABP, GCN20, White).
This protein is a member of the MDR/TAP subfamily.
Members of the MDR/TAP subfamily are involved in multidrug resistance.
The protein encoded by this gene is an ATP-dependent drug efflux pump for xenobiotic compounds with broad substrate specificity.
It is responsible for decreased drug accumulation in multidrug-resistant cells and often mediates the development of resistance to anticancer drugs.
This protein also functions as a transporter in the blood-brain barrier.
Acetamide (IUPAC: ethanamide) is an organic compound with the formula CH3CONH2.
It is the simplest amide derived from acetic acid.
It finds some use as a plasticizer and as an industrial solvent.
The related compound N,N-dimethylacetamide (DMA) is more widely used, but it is not prepared from acetamide.
Desethylvardenafil is a vardenafil metabolite, a phosphodiesterase 5 inhibitor.
The number of times a patient voids, rather than the urine output volume.
A tetradecapeptide originally obtained from the skins of toads Bombina bombina and B. variegata.
It is also an endogenous neurotransmitter in many animals including mammals.
Bombesin affects vascular and other smooth muscle, gastric secretion, and renal circulation and function.
Cotinine is a metabolite of nicotine that typically remains in the blood between 48 and 96 hours.
The level of cotinine in the blood is proportionate to the amount of exposure to tobacco smoke, so it is a valuable indicator of tobacco smoke exposure, including secondary smoke.
Women who smoke menthol cigarettes retain cotinine in the blood for a longer period.
Race may also play a role, as African-Americans routinely register higher blood cotinine levels than Caucasians.
Several factors, such as menthol cigarette preference and puff size, suggest that this difference may be more complex than gender or race.
Drug tests can detect cotinine in the blood, urine, or saliva.
The word 'cotinine' is an anagram of 'nicotine'.
Ferritin is a globular protein found mainly in the liver; when not combined with iron it is called apoferritin.
White-faced hornets live in large colonies of 50 to 2000 individuals.
They often build aerial nests on or around human dwellings.
Stinging incidents often occur when man accidentally disturbs a nest while engaged in yardwork or house repairs.
The white-faced hornet is rare in Europe, but is of great importance in the North American continent.
IgE-mediated reactions often present as large local reactions with swelling extending from the sting site.
They sometimes include anaphylactic reactions with common symptoms such as urticaria, flushing and angioedema as well as more serious respiratory and cardiovascular symptoms.
The reactions can be fatal.
Reactions can be both of the immediate and/or delayed type.
Poa annua, or annual meadow grass, is a widespread low-growing, tufted, annual plant in temperate climates.
Whether or not a patient's specimen was transported to the CDC.
Mugwort is native to Europe, Asia and northern Africa, but is now also present in North America where it is an invasive weed.
Approximately 79-95% of Mugwort-allergic patients are sensitized to Art v 1, which is a major Mugwort allergen.
Art v 1 is a 28 kDa modular glycoprotein able to induce strong T-cell responses.
Art v 1 from Mugwort represents a specific marker allergen suitable for discriminating between genuine Mugwort sensitization and cross-reactivity.
Leptospirosis is one of the most common global zoonotic diseases, and most infections are caused two species: Leptospira borgpetersenii and Leptospira interrogans.
L. borgpetersenii is found worldwide but only recently was identified in Australia, after which it quickly became a predominant pathogen.
In 2011, the state of Queensland experienced multiple natural disasters including widespread flooding and a category 5 tropical cyclone.
In the months after the flooding, cases of leptospirosis increased, and L. borgpetersenii was found to be the infectious agent in nearly 50% of human leptospirosis cases, whereas previously it had been identified only rarely.
Non-collagenous, calcium-binding glycoprotein of developing bone.
It links collagen to mineral in the bone matrix.
In the synonym SPARC glycoprotein, the acronym stands for Secreted Protein, Acidic and Rich in Cysteine.
Posaconazole is a triazole antifungal drug.
Posaconazole is marketed in the United States, the European Union, and in other countries by Schering-Plough under the trade name Noxafil.
Rifaximin is a semisynthetic antibiotic based on rifamycin.
It has poor oral bioavailability, meaning that very little of the drug will be absorbed into the blood stream when it is taken orally.
Rifaximin is used in the treatment of traveler's diarrhea and hepatic encephalopathy, for which it received orphan drug status from the U.S. Food and Drug Administration in 1998.
The NADH-ubiquinone oxidoreductase complex (complex I) of the mitochondrial respiratory chain catalyzes the transfer of electrons from NADH to ubiquinone, and consists of at least 43 subunits.
The complex is located in the inner mitochondrial membrane.
This gene encodes a mitochondrial protein that is associated with the matrix face of the mitochondrial inner membrane and is required for complex I assembly.
A mutation in this gene results in mitochondrial complex I deficiency.
Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
CD46 is an inhibitory complement receptor.
The protein encoded by this gene is a type I membrane protein and is a regulatory part of the complement system.
The encoded protein has cofactor activity for inactivation of complement components C3b and C4b by serum factor I, which protects the host cell from damage by complement.
In addition, the encoded protein can act as a receptor for the Edmonston strain of measles virus, human herpesvirus-6, and type IV pili of pathogenic Neisseria.
Finally, the protein encoded by this gene may be involved in the fusion of the spermatozoa with the oocyte during fertilization.
This gene is found in a cluster on chromosome 1q32 with other genes encoding structural components of the complement system.
At least fourteen different transcript variants encoding fourteen different isoforms have been found for this gene.
Howell-Jolly bodies are histopathological findings of basophilic nuclear remnants (clusters of DNA) in circulating erythrocytes.
During maturation in the bone marrow, erythrocytes normally expel their nuclei, but in some cases, a small portion of DNA remains.
Named for William Henry Howell and Justin Marie Jolly.
Phytic acid (known as inositol hexakisphosphate (IP6), or phytate when in salt form) is the principal storage form of phosphorus in many plant tissues, especially bran and seeds.
A mammalian neuropeptide of 10 amino acids that belongs to the tachykinin family.
It is similar in structure and action to SUBSTANCE P and NEUROKININ B with the ability to excite neurons, dilate blood vessels, and contract smooth muscles, such as those in the BRONCHI.
Sulfonylurea (UK: Sulphonylurea) derivatives are antidiabetic drugs primarily used to treat diabetes mellitus type 2, and include drugs such as Chlorpropamide, Tolazamide, Tolbutamide, Glyburide, Gliclazide, Glipizide, Gliquidone, Acetohexamide and others.
They act by increasing insulin release from the beta cells in the pancreas.
Sulfonylureas are ineffective where there is absolute deficiency of insulin production such as in type 1 diabetes or post-pancreatectomy.
A species of the genus BRUCELLA whose natural hosts are cattle and other bovidae.
Abortion and placentitis are frequently produced in the pregnant animal.
Other mammals, including humans, may be infected.
The malonate or propanedioate ion is CH2(COO)22− (malonic acid minus two hydrogen ions).
Malonate compounds include salts and esters of malonic acid, such as diethyl malonate, (C2H5)2(C3H2O4), dimethyl malonate, (CH3)2(C3H2O4), disodium malonate, Na2(C3H2O4).
Malonate is an inhibitor of cellular respiration, because it binds to the active site of the succinate dehydrogenase in the citric acid cycle but does not react, thereby competing with succinate.
For the oxidative phosphorylation reaction, Malonate is an inhibitor for complex II which, again, contains succinate dehydrogenase.
Milnacipran, also known in Austria as Ixel, is an antidepressent used to treat depression and fibromyalgia.
Milnacipran has also been associated with transient aminotransferase elevation during drug treatment and rare cases of acute liver injury.
Latex that is used industrially is obtained from the rubber tree.
Processing of the sap creates a latex concentrate that contains 1% allergenic protein manganese superoxide dismutase (MnSOD), and although only a small amount of the 1% is present in the final product it is enough to cause allergic responses in patients sensitive to latex.
MnSOD has been designated Hev b 10.
The rHev b 10 protein is a minor latex antigen.
Latex recombinant rHev b 10 is a cross-reactive allergen of latex.
MnSOD from H. brasiliensis was cloned and expressed in E. coli.
Immunoblot tests of patients sensitive to latex have been shown to react to Hev b 10.
Even though Hev b 10 is a minor latex allergen, IgE antibodies that bind to it also have been found to bind to the MnSODs of Aspergillus fumigatus demonstrating a latex allergy to mold allergy connection.
Carnosine is a dipeptide metabolite of the amino acids Beta-alanine and histidine.
Carnosinase deficiency results in the very rare inherited disorder of carnosinemia.
High levels of carnosine are found in the blood and urine and both carnosine and homocarnosine are found in CSF.
(Information from Tietz' "Fundamentals of Clinical Chemistry," 5th ed, editors:Burtis CA and Ashwood ER, 2001).
CD34 molecule is a cluster of differentiation molecule present on certain cells within the human body.
It is a cell surface glycoprotein and functions as a cell-cell adhesion factor.
It may also mediate the attachment of stem cells to bone marrow extracellular matrix or directly to stromal cells.
CD34 is also the name for the human gene that encodes the protein.
Cells expressing CD34 (CD34+ cell) are normally found in the umbilical cord and bone marrow as hematopoietic cells, a subset of mesenchymal stem cells, endothelial progenitor cells, endothelial cells of blood vessels but not lymphatics (except pleural lymphatics), mast cells, a sub-population dendritic cells (which are factor XIIIa-negative) in the interstitium and around the adnexa of dermis of skin, as well as cells in some soft tissue tumors.
The presence of CD34 on non-hematopoietic cells has been linked to progenitor and adult stem cell phenotypes.
Mycoplasma hypopneumoniae P146 is one of the bacteria's adhesin-like proteins involved in this cell adhesion process.
M. hyopneumoniae must adhere to the tracheal epithelial cells of swine in order for the disease to become established.
The characterization of molecules which bring about the adhesion process has been studied extensively to understand the virulence and pathogenesis of the disease caused by the organism.
The P146 gene is endoproteolytically processed, generating at least nine gene fragments.
It contains 3 variable repeat regions and 2 variable coiled-coil regions.
Since each P146 nucleotide sequence will vary in length due to the multiple repeat regions, the nucleotide sequence is translated to amino acids for P146 phylogenetic analysis.
Variation in the gene encoding P146 adhesion-like molecule has been used to differentiate the M. hypopneumoniae strains.
Reflects the mean peroxidase staining of neutrophils as measured in the peroxidase channel of an automated instrument.
Hepatitis A virus (HAV) is a small, non-enveloped single-stranded RNA virus that belongs to the Picornaviridae family, genus Hepatovirus.
HAV has six genotypes (I to VI) in which genotypes I to III are human isolates and IV to VI are only simian isolates.
Genotypes I to III are subdivided into groups A and B. Genotype I is the most frequently reported.
The clinical manifestations of HAV infection can vary significantly and range from asymptomatic infection, usually seen in young children, to fulminant hepatitis, which can result in death.
HAV has a global distribution, and transmission primarily occurs by the fecal-oral route.
The risk of HAV transmission through blood products is very low, but there have been some reports of transmission through plasma products, mainly coagulation factors.
2-Pyridone is an organic compound with the formula C5H4NH(O).
This colorless crystalline solid is used in peptide synthesis.
It is well known to form hydrogen bonded structures somewhat related to the base-pairing mechanism found in RNA and DNA.
It is also a classic case of a molecule that exists as tautomers.
Tropomyosin belongs to a class of highly conserved proteins in invertebrates and vertebrates, the muscle protein of invertebrates, e.g., lobster, fly.
The invertebrate tropomyosins are allergenic in man with high IgE cross-reactivity and have been therefore referred to as pan-allergens.
Tropomyosins are also present in vertebrate sources of food, e.g., bony fish, beef, pork and chicken, but are rarely allergenic in these foods compared to lobster and shrimp.
One of the catecholamine neurotransmitters in the brain.
Derived from tyrosine it is the precursor to norepinephrine and epinephrine.
Dopamine is a major transmitter in the extrapyramidal system of the brain, and is important in regulating its movement.
A family of receptors mediates its action.
This panel represents the COOP Charts for adult/geriatric patients with a 1-10 numeric rating scale.
Images included with each term display the charts and indicate in color (red, green, yellow) the usual score "cutoffs" in clinical settings.
The Dartmouth-Northern New England Primary Care Cooperative Information Project (Dartmouth CO-OP Project) chart system has been developed to assess the functional status of adults and adolescents.
The dimensions of health status measured by the health charts are: Physical, Emotional, Daily Activities, Social Activities, Social Support, Pain, and Overall Health.
Two main versions of the COOP Charts exist: the original CO-OP charts (this panel) and the CO-OP/WONCA version.
The WONCA version has been developed as the international standard for classifying the functional status of adult patients in primary care settings.
This version differs from the original CO-OP Charts by asking about function in the previous 2 weeks (rather than 4 weeks).
Several variations of the COOP charts also exists and scoring across instruments varies (e.g. 1-10 where 10 is worst, 1-5 where 5 is worst, and some even reverse the numbers).
For scoring, typically the patient's answers, or scores, for each chart are recorded as-is in the patient's medical record; no scoring algorithm or computing is necessary.
A summative total score is not recommended by the developers, however some users may be recording it.
The lens is the structure which focuses light and images on the retina.
Lens examination includes its size, shape, color, position and transparency.
Anserine is a dipeptide amino acid metabolite and requires zinc for the normal conversion to Beta-alanine or 1-Methylhistidine in the Beta amino acid pathway.
High dietary intake of poultry can increase plasma anserine levels.
Recombinant non-glycosylated protein produced in an E. coli strain carrying a cloned cDNA encoding Canis familiaris allergen Can f 1.
Metharbital is a barbiturate anticonvulsant, used in the treatment of epilepsy.
It has similar properties to phenobarbital.
Streptococcus intermedius is a species of Streptococcus.
DNA homology studies and 16S rRNA sequence analysis demonstrate S. intermedius is part of the Streptococcus anginosus (or milleri) group along with Streptococcus constellatus and Streptococcus anginosus.
S. intermedius is part of the normal flora, but has been isolated from patients with periodontitis and fatal purulent infections, particularly brain and liver abscesses.
A substituted phenylaminoethanol that has beta-2 adrenomimetic properties at very low doses.
It is used as a bronchodilator in asthma.
Pyridoxine vitamin B6 is a cofactor in metabolic pathways including heme synthesis.
Deficiency of vitamin B6 can occur in patients with metabolic disorders, alcoholism, and secondary to some therapeutic drug use.
Immune system dysfunction may occur with vitamin B6 deficiency.
Information from Quest Laboratories 2007 07 31.
Amidinopenicillanic acid derivative with broad spectrum antibacterial action.
It is poorly absorbed if given orally and is used in urinary infections and typhus.
An anterior pituitary hormone that stimulates the secretion of corticosteroids and induces growth of the adrenal cortex.
It is a single-chain polypeptide of about 39 amino acids, the first 24 of which are identical in all species.
The 24-amino acid segment is responsible for the activity of the peptide whereas the 15-amino one confers immunological specificity.
(From Merck Index, 11th ed)
Glutathione (GSH) is an important low molecular weight thiol compound that is synthesized in cells.
Its primary functions are protecting cells against oxidative stress and regulating cell function.
Glutathione peroxidase oxidizes GSH to glutathione disulfide (GSSG) with concomitant formation of H20 from H2O2.
Most cells have a high GSH/GSSG ratio.
Cellular GSH concentration is typically a thousand-fold higher than the intravascular concentration.
Low intravascular levels of GSH are associated with chronic diseases including heart disease, stroke, cancer, chronic respiratory diseases, diabetes, and mitochondrial disorders, and low intracellular levels with Alzheimer's and Parkinson's disease.
Higher than normal GSH levels have been found in a variety of cancerous cells, including bone marrow, breast, colon and lung, which makes the cells more resistant to chemotherapy and radiation.
Creatine is a nitrogenous organic acid that naturally occurs in vertebrates and helps to supply energy to muscle cells.
In solution, creatine is in equilibrium with creatinine.
Creatine is naturally produced in the human body from amino acids primarily in the kidney and liver.
It is transported in the blood for use by muscles.
Approximately 95% of the human body's total creatine is located in skeletal muscle.
Genetic deficiencies in the creatine biosynthetic pathway lead to various severe neurological defects.
Rocky Mountain spotted fever is the most severe and most frequently reported rickettsial illness in the United States, and has been diagnosed throughout the Americas.
Some synonyms for Rocky Mountain spotted fever in other countries include tick typhus, Tobia fever (Colombia), Sao Paulo fever or febre maculosa (Brazil), and fiebre manchada (Mexico).
The disease is caused by Rickettsia rickettsii, a species of bacteria that is spread to humans by hard ticks (Ixodidae).
Initial signs and symptoms of the disease include sudden onset of fever, headache, and muscle pain, followed by development of rash.
The disease can be difficult to diagnose in the early stages, and without prompt and appropriate treatment it can be fatal.
Rocky Mountain spotted fever was first described in 1896 in the Snake River Valley of Idaho and was originally called black measles because of the characteristic rash.
Heparin anti-Xa levels are ordered to monitor and adjust standard iunfractionated heparin (UFH) therapy and sometimes low molecular weight heparin (LMWH) therapy.
Patients who have "heparin resistance" do not respond as expected to UFH therapy.
If the heparin anti-Xa concentration is below the therapeutic range, then the dosage of heparin may need to be increased to prevent excessive clotting.
A central nervous system stimulant used in fatigue and depressive states and to treat hyperkinetic disorders in children.
Fc fragment of IgA receptor (FCAR) also known as CD89 (Cluster of Differentiation 89), is a human gene.
This gene is a member of the immunoglobulin gene superfamily and encodes a receptor for the Fc region of IgA.
The receptor is a transmembrane glycoprotein present on the surface of myeloid lineage cells such as neutrophils, monocytes, macrophages, and eosinophils, where it mediates immunologic responses to pathogens.
It interacts with IgA-opsonized targets and triggers several immunologic defense processes, including phagocytosis, antibody-dependent cell-mediated cytotoxicity, and stimulation of the release of inflammatory mediators.
Ten transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been described for this gene.
Leishmania tropica is a species of flagellate parasites that infects humans and hyraxes.
It can cause a disease called oriental sore which is a form of cutaneous leishmaniasis.
Leishmania tropica is a single-celled trypanosome parasite responsible for causing cutaneous Leishmaniasis.
Cutaneous Leishmaniasis develops at the site of a sand fly bite.
The sand fly, which carries the promastigote stage of L. tropica, is the vector.
An inorganic and water-soluble platinum complex.
After undergoing hydrolysis, it reacts with DNA to produce both intra and interstrand crosslinks.
These crosslinks appear to impair replication and transcription of DNA.
The cytotoxicity of cisplatin correlates with cellular arrest in the G2 phase of the cell cycle.
Candida krusei is an elongated facultative saprophyte of variable shape and size.
It takes on both yeast and pseudohyphae morphological forms.
It is found in various natural habitats including in the atmosphere, fruits, sewage, silage, soil, dairy, meat, pickles, sugar, wine, and beer.
Serious infections are seen in immunocompromised patients with hematologic malignancies, especially leukemia, and in transplant recipients.
A rise in the number of infections with C krusei is associated with the spread of the human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) and the use of the antifungal triazole fluconazole.
C krusei is also the cause of infection due to invasive medical procedures performed on immunocompromised patients that can cause endophthalmitis, arthritis, and endocarditis.
Mortality rates due to C. krusei bloodstream infection have been reported at nearly 50%.C krusei is naturally resistant to fluconazole and has decreased susceptibility to both flucytosine and amphotericin B.
3-alpha-androstanediol glucuronide is a natural human metabolite of 3-alpha-androstanediol generated in the liver by UDP glucuonyltransferase.
Glucuronidation is used to assist in the excretion of toxic substances, drugs or other substances that cannot be used as an energy source.
Glucuronic acid is attached via a glycosidic bond to the substance, and the resulting glucuronide, which has a much higher water solubility than the original substance, is eventually excreted by the kidneys.
Fibrous incombustible mineral composed of magnesium and calcium silicates with or without other elements.
It is relatively inert chemically and used in thermal insulation and fireproofing.
Inhalation of dust causes asbestosis and later lung and gastrointestinal neoplasms.
A species of helminth commonly called the sheep liver fluke.
It occurs in the biliary passages, liver, and gallbladder during various stages of development.
Snails and aquatic vegetation are the intermediate hosts.
Occasionally seen in man, it is most common in sheep and cattle.
A genus of flagellate intestinal protozoa parasitic in various vertebrates, including humans.
Characteristics include the presence of four pairs of flagella arising from a complicated system of axonemes and cysts that are ellipsoidal to ovoidal in shape.
L-Proline is one of the twenty proteinogenic units used in the building blocks of proteins.
The other nineteen units are all primary amino acids, but due to the cyclic binding of the three-carbon side chain to the nitrogen of the backbone, proline lacks a primary amine group (ˆ'NH2).
The nitrogen in proline is referred to as a secondary amine.
Proline is sometimes called an amino acid, although the IUPAC definition of an amine requires a carbon-nitrogen double bond.
A deletion on the 7q11.23 chromosomal region is found in approximately 90-95% of patients with classical Williams-Beuren Syndrome (WBS).
The WBS critical region (WBSCR) can also be duplicated in patients with 7q11.23 Duplication Syndrome.
Glyceric acid is a natural three-carbon sugar acid.
Salts and esters of glyceric acid are known as glycerates.
Several phosphate derivatives of glyceric acid, including 2-phosphoglyceric acid, 3-phosphoglyceric acid, 2,3-bisphosphoglyceric acid, and 1,3-bisphosphoglyceric acid, are important biochemical intermediates.
Keyhole limpet hemocyanin (KLH) is a large, multisubunit, oxygen-carrying, metalloprotein found in the hemolymph of the giant keyhole limpet, Megathura crenulata.
KLH is being used in a variety of cancer vaccines, including non-Hodgkins lymphoma, cutaneous melanoma, breast and bladder cancer.
These vaccines contain specific tumor-associated antigens conjugated to KLH to stimulate anti-tumor immune responses which can destroy tumor cells.
KLH is very immunogenic, so assays to monitor humoral immune responses against KLH in human serum have been developed.
An individual's humoral and cellular anti-KLH response is indicative for their immunocompetence (Grant et al. 2008,.
Testing for anti-KLH antibodies may also be performed as a biomarker for vaccine-immunogenicity of KLH-containing and KLH-conjugated vaccines (Irfan et al. 2007, .
Ehrlichia ewingii is a species of rickettsiales bacteria.
Previously known to infect dogs, it has recently been associated with human infection.
There is currently no serological test.
PCR can be used in diagnosis.
General increase in bulk of a part or organ due to CELL ENLARGEMENT and accumulation of FLUIDS AND SECRETIONS, not due to tumor formation, nor to an increase in the number of cells (HYPERPLASIA).
Streptococcus dysgalactiae subspecies equisimilis (SDSE) is a species of Streptococcus and recognized as an important bacterial pathogen.
Many of the virulence factors identified in Streptococcus pyogenes are also found in SDSE strains.
As a result, the clinical spectrum of diseases caused by SDSE closely resembles S. pyogenes infections.
Recent studies have shown increasing numbers of invasive SDSE infections, especially immunocompromised patients.
Dimethyl phthalate is a phthalate with molecular formula (CH3)2(C6H4(COO)2).
It is the methyl ester of phthalic acid.
Dimethyl phthalate is an ectoparasiticide and has many other uses, including in solid rocket propellants, plastics, and insect repellants
Hemochromatosis gene mutation causes Hereditary Hemochromatosis (HH) when serum transferrin-iron saturation results are elevated.
HH is the most common autosomal recessive disease in the Caucasian population.
HH causes excess iron absorption that leads to iron deposits in tissues and organs, eventually leading to organ dysfunction.
Two point mutations in the HLA locus of chromosome 6 are responsible for the majority of HH cases-C282Y and H63D mutations.
The S65C mutation is a mild mutation accounting for 1-4% of the carriers.
Information from Wikipedia 2006 10 24.
The protein encoded by this gene is a transferase, which catalyzes conversion of hypoxanthine to inosine monophosphate and guanine to guanosine monophosphate via transfer of the 5-phosphoribosyl group from 5-phosphoribosyl 1-pyrophosphate.
This enzyme plays a central role in the generation of purine nucleotides through the purine salvage pathway.
Mutations in this gene result in Lesch-Nyhan syndrome or gout.
The pancreas makes amylase (alpha amylase) to hydrolyze dietary starch into carbohydrates which are converted to glucose to provide the body with energy.
Elevated pancreatic amylase levels can be found in pancreatic pleural effusions from patients with pancreatitis.
This anti-Xa assay is used to monitor levels of factor Xa inhitibors, such as Unfractionated Heparins (UFH) and Low Molecular Weight Heparins (LMWH).
Based on the inhibition of a known amount of factor Xa by heparin combined with antithrombin in the patient's sample, the residual factor Xa activity is inversely proportional to the heparin concentration.
Unlike the aPTT, the anti-Xa assay is not influenced by additional coagulation factors of intrinsic and common pathways and inhibitors.
It is not affected by concomittant VKA therapy.
The injectable anticoagulant heparin is widely used in emergency situations, and the main risks are bleeding and heparin-induced thrombocytopenia (HIT), a common prothrombotic complication of UFH and LMWH therapies.
In order to prevent HIT, platelet monitoring is also essential in patients receiving UFH and LMWH therapy.
A benzodiazepine with anticonvulsant, hypnotic, and muscle relaxant properties.
It has been shown in some cases to be more potent than DIAZEPAM or NITRAZEPAM.
Uroporphyrinogen III synthase is an enzyme involved in the fourth step of porphyrin metabolism, involved in the conversion of hydroxymethyl bilane into uroporphyrinogen III.
A deficiency is associated with Gunther's disease, also known as congenital erythropoietic porphyria (CEP).
This is an autosomal recessive inborn error of metabolism that results from the markedly deficient activity of uroporphyrinogen III synthase.
The "Anaphylaxis Action Plan" is a communication tool medical providers use to inform school staff of a patient's allergy condition and instruct how to respond if the child has an anaphylaxis event while at school.
School staff uses this Information to be aware of a child's allergy condition, understand how to respond to an anaphylaxis event and authorize their treatment of the child at school for anaphylaxis.
The following information is included in the action plan: 1.
Patient Information: MRN, name, address, age, sex, dob, weight, parent/guardian name, if asthma, PCP/clinic name, date, school, grade, medical diagnosis, 2. Emergency contact information: names & phone numbers, 3.
Allergies: asthma presence, anaphylaxis triggers, anaphylaxis symptoms, 4.
Past reactions (s/s of allergic reaction): ex.s: wheezing or difficulty breathing, generalized tingling or itching, 5. Action Plan: steps to follow if Severe Symptoms (described); steps to follow if Mild Symptoms (described), medication orders: epinephrine, antihistamine and/or other meds6.
Emergency Action Steps: epinephrine med order, call 911, emergency contacts, 7.
Monitoring: instructions to follow after administering medications, 8.
Additional health problems, 9.
Authorization for administration of medication away from clinic, yes or no to student self-administration, provider signature and date, parent/guardian authorization: signatures and dates consenting school to give medications, parent/guardian authorization self-administration meds by student, student agreement, school nurse signature.
Rh32 is a low frequency Rh antigen.
Anti-Rh32 has been associated with hemolytic disease of the newborn.
A protozoan parasite causing tropical theileriasis in cattle.
It is transmitted by ticks of the Hyalomma genus.
Radioembolization is a form of transarterial intervention that utilizes yttrium 90 (90Y) that is either bound to microspheres of resin or is an integral part of glass microspheres.
The microspheres are 20-60 microns and are deposited at the tumor site where they block blood flow to the tumor and deliver intense local radiation.
Radioembolization therapy can be difficult to interpret due to changes in the parenchyma which can include necrosis, lack of enhancement, and specific findings at positron emission tomography (PET) and magnetic resonance (MR) imaging.
A cholesterol derivative found in human feces, gallstones, eggs, and other biological matter.
A synthetic morphinan analgesic with narcotic antagonist action.
It is used in the management of severe pain.
Dimethyl sulfoxide (DMSO) is the organosulfur compound with the formula (CH3)2SO.
This colorless liquid is an important polar aprotic solvent that dissolves both polar and nonpolar compounds and is miscible in a wide range of organic solvents as well as water.
It has a distinctive property of penetrating the skin very readily, so that one may taste it soon after it comes into contact with the skin.
Its taste has been described as oyster- or garlic-like.
As a relevant indoor allergen, Ficus benjamina ranks third after mites and pets and before molds in a German clinic.
Any workplace where green plants like ficus are handled.
Naturally growing ficus plants in tropical areas have not been reported to cause allergy.
Ficus benjamina (Fb), also known as Java willow, Ceylon willow and Bali fig tree, is a tropical non-flowering plant used ornamentally in homes and public places such as offices and hospitals.
The allergens are originally located in the sap of the plant, but are present in dust collected from leaf surfaces and also in house dust on the floor, where the allergens may persist over a period of several months after removal of the plant).
The main route for sensitization is probably by inhalation of airborne dust emanating from the leaves of the plant.
Allergy to Fb was first observed in an occupational setting, where two plant leasing workers were sensitized and developed Fb-linked rhinitis and asthma.
In a subsequent study in four plant-leasing firms, it was found that 27% of the workers had IgE antibodies to Fb.
The sensitization occurred in atopic individuals as well as in non-atopic.
alpha-Linolenic acid is an organic compound found in many common vegetable oils.
In terms of its structure, it is named all-cis-9,12,15-octadecatrienoic acid.
In physiological literature, it is given the name 18:3 (n−3).
Α-Linolenic acid is a carboxylic acid with an 18-carbon chain and three cis double bonds.
The first double bond is located at the third carbon from the n end.
Thus, α-linolenic acid is a polyunsaturated n−3 (omega-3) fatty acid.
It is an isomer of γ-linolenic acid, a polyunsaturated n−6 (omega-6) fatty acid
Thiocyanate (also known as rhodanide) is the anion −.
It is the conjugate base of thiocyanic acid.
Common derivatives include the colorless salts potassium thiocyanate and sodium thiocyanate.
Organic compounds containing the functional group SCN are also called thiocyanates.
thiocyanate was formerly used in pyrotechnics
Thiocyanate is known to be an important part in the biosynthesis of hypothiocyanite by a lactoperoxidase.
Thus the complete absence of thiocyanate or reducted thiocyanate in the human body, (e.g., cystic fibrosis) is damaging to the human host defense system.
Thiocyanate is a metabolite of sodium nitroprusside, after rhodanese catalyses its reaction with thiosulfate
The risk evaluation and mitigation strategies (REMS) Summary is an overview of what stakeholders who participate in REMS with ETASU, such as healthcare providers, patients, and distributors, are required to do under the REMS' Elements to Assure Safe Use and Implementation System.
The housefly (also house fly, house-fly or common housefly), Musca domestica, is a fly of the Brachycera suborder.
It is the most common of all domestic flies, accounting for about 90% of all flies in human habitations, and indeed one of the most widely distributed insects, found all over the world; it is considered a pest that can carry serious diseases.
A section to capture risk evaluation and mitigation strategies (REMS) risk addressed, to standardize REMS information for inclusion into pharmacy systems.
A hard, distinctively flavoured cheese made of skim milk in a specific region in Italy.
Popular as an accompaniment to pasta (see), on which it is served grated.
Plasmodium is a genus of parasitic protozoa.
Infection by this parasite is known to cause malaria.
The genus Plasmodium was discovered in 1885 by Marchiafava and Celli.
Currently over 200 species of this genus are recognized and new species continue to be described.
Of over the 200 known species of Plasmodium, at least 10 species infect humans.
Other species infect animals, including monkeys, rodents, birds, and reptiles.
The parasite always has two hosts in its life cycle: a mosquito vector and a vertebrate host.
Styrene oxide is an epoxide derived from styrene.
It may be prepared by epoxidation of styrene with peroxybenzoic acid, in the Prilezhaev reaction.
Styrene oxide is a main metabolite of styrene in humans or animals, resulting from oxidation by cytochrome P450.
It is considered toxic, mutagenic, and possibly carcinogenic.
Styrene oxide is subsequently hydrolyzed in vivo to styrene glycol by epoxide hydrolase.
A 77-kDa subcomponent of complement C1, encoded by gene C1S, is a SERINE PROTEASE existing as a proenzyme (homodimer) in the intact complement C1 complex.
Upon the binding of COMPLEMENT C1Q to antibodies, the activated COMPLEMENT C1R cleaves C1s into two chains, A (heavy) and B (light, the serine protease), linked by disulfide bonds yielding the active C1s.
The activated C1s, in turn, cleaves COMPLEMENT C2 and COMPLEMENT C4 to form C4b2a (CLASSICAL C3 CONVERTASE).
Dog serum albumin is a protein mainly present in the serum.
One exposure route is through saliva but dog serum albumin is also present in a fair amount in the skin (epithelium).
Virus belonging to the viral family Retroviridae.
Enveloped viruses possessing an RNA genome, and replicate via a DNA intermediate.
A serotype of the species California encephalitis virus (ENCEPHALITIS VIRUS, CALIFORNIA), in the genus ORTHOBUNYAVIRUS, causing human MENINGOENCEPHALITIS.
This is the agent most responsible for California encephalitis (ENCEPHALITIS, CALIFORNIA), the most prevalent mosquito-borne disease recognized in the United States.
Celecoxib (INN) is a sulfa non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) used in the treatment of osteoarthritis, rheumatoid arthritis, acute pain, painful menstruation and menstrual symptoms, and to reduce numbers of colon and rectum polyps in patients with familial adenomatous polyposis.
It is marketed by Pfizer.
It is known under the brand name Celebrex or Celebra for arthritis and Onsenal for polyps.
Celecoxib is available by prescription in capsule form.
The state of being deprived of sleep under experimental conditions, due to life events, or from a wide variety of pathophysiologic causes such as medication effect, chronic illness, psychiatric illness, or sleep disorder.
Lipoprotein (a) is a modified form of LDL to which another glycoprotein, termed apolipoprotein (a), is covalently bound.
It contributes to atherogenic risk by multiple mechanisms that include inhibition of fibrinolysis, increased cholesterol deposition in the arterial wall, and enhanced oxidation of LDL cholesterol.
The evidence linking Lp(a) levels and the risk of coronary disease is strongest for middle aged white men.
Higher Lp(a) levels have been consistently observed in white and Asian groups with vascular disease, but not in African Americans.
The FANCC gene (Fanconi anemia, complementation group C) is located on chromosome 9q22.3.
The Fanconi anemia complementation group (FANC) currently includes FANCA, FANCB, FANCC, FANCD1 (also called BRCA2), FANCD2, FANCE, FANCF, FANCG, FANCI, FANCJ (also called BRIP1), FANCL, FANCM and FANCN (also called PALB2).
The previously defined group FANCH is the same as FANCA.
Fanconi anemia is a genetically heterogeneous recessive disorder characterized by cytogenetic instability, hypersensitivity to DNA crosslinking agents, increased chromosomal breakage, and defective DNA repair.
The members of the Fanconi anemia complementation group do not share sequence similarity; they are related by their assembly into a common nuclear protein complex.
This gene encodes the protein for complementation group C.
The LCT gene (lactase) is located on chromosome 2q21.
The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the family 1 of glycosyl hydrolases.
The protein is integral to plasma membrane and has both phlorizin hydrolase activity and lactase activity.
Deoxyribonucleoprotein is the complex of DNA and protein in which DNA is usually found upon cell disruption and isolation
The FLT3 gene (fms-related tyrosine kinase 3) is located on chromosome 13q12.
This gene encodes a class III receptor tyrosine kinase that regulates hematopoiesis.
This receptor is activated by binding of the fms-related tyrosine kinase 3 ligand to the extracellular domain, which induces homodimer formation in the plasma membrane leading to autophosphorylation of the receptor.
The activated receptor kinase subsequently phosphorylates and activates multiple cytoplasmic effector molecules in pathways involved in apoptosis, proliferation, and differentiation of hematopoietic cells in bone marrow.
Mutations that result in the constitutive activation of this receptor result in acute myeloid leukemia and acute lymphoblastic leukemia.
FLT3 mutations occur in approximately 1/3 of patients with AML.
About 70% are internal tandem duplications, and the rest are due to variants in the tyrosine kinase domain of FLT3, primarily at Asp835 (D835).
The RB1 gene (retinoblastoma 1) is located on chromosome 13q14.2.
The protein encoded by this gene is a negative regulator of the cell cycle and was the first tumor suppressor gene found.
The encoded protein also stabilizes constitutive heterochromatin to maintain the overall chromatin structure.
The active, hypophosphorylated form of the protein binds transcription factor E2F1.
Defects in this gene are a cause of childhood cancer retinoblastoma (RB), bladder cancer, and osteogenic sarcoma.
An alkaloid found in opium but not closely related to the other opium alkaloids in its structure or pharmacological actions.
It is a direct-acting smooth muscle relaxant used in the treatment of impotence and as a vasodilator, especially for cerebral vasodilation.
The mechanism of its pharmacological actions is not clear, but it apparently can inhibit phosphodiesterases and it may have direct actions on calcium channels.
A purine base found in most body tissues and fluids, certain plants, and some urinary calculi.
It is an intermediate in the degradation of adenosine monophosphate to uric acid, being formed by oxidation of hypoxanthine.
The methylated xanthine compounds caffeine, theobromine, and theophylline and their derivatives are used in medicine for their bronchodilator effects.
Basophils and mast cells contain granules that stain dark blue to black with Wright-Giemsa.
The basophil nucleus is segmented and the chromatin is condensed or smudged.
Mast cells are usually larger than basophils with a low nuclear to cytoplasmic ratio and a round or oval nucleus usually obscured by abundant red-purple granules.
These granules in mast cells are smaller and more round and regular than basophilic granules and release histamine upon stimulation.
Basophils and mast cells are derived from separate progenitor cells.
Basophils and mast cells are not normally found in body fluids, but when present, are most commonly associated with inflammatory conditions, foreign body reactions, and parasitic infestations.
The TNNT2 gene (troponin T2, cardiac type) is located on chromosome 1q32.
The protein encoded by this gene is the tropomyosin-binding subunit of the troponin complex, which is located on the thin filament of striated muscles and regulates muscle contraction in response to alterations in intracellular calcium ion concentration.
Mutations in this gene have been associated with familial hypertrophic cardiomyopathy as well as with dilated cardiomyopathy.
Transcripts for this gene undergo alternative splicing that results in many tissue-specific isoforms, however, the full-length nature of some of these variants has not yet been determined.
Histamine H1 antagonist used in treatment of allergies, rhinitis, and urticaria.
A plant species of the genus Solanum, family Solanaceae.
The starchy roots are used as food.
Solanine is found in green parts.
Pemoline has some advantages over other stimulants in that it does not reduce the appetite or cause dry mouth.
However, in some patients Pemoline is suspected of causing liver damage, so regular liver tests are performed on those treated with it.
Since receiving FDA approval in 1975, it has been linked with 21 cases of liver failure, of which 13 resulted in liver replacement or death.
In 2005, the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) withdrew approval for Pemoline due to pressure from certain public advocacy groups, including Public Citizen.
Patient support group the Narcolepsy Network tried to persuade the FDA not to ban it, on the grounds that some patients find all other treatments ineffective or to have dehabilitating side effects.
A vasodilator that is administered by inhalation.
It is also used recreationally due to its supposed ability to induce euphoria and act as an aphrodisiac.
Intravenous lipid emulsions (ILE) are given to patients as a supplemental source of calories and essential fatty acids.
Such emulsions can contain soybean, egg yolk, phospholipids, glycerin and water.
In extremely low birth weight infants ILE is given to promote continued growth of the body and brain.
In some reports the administration of ILE has been associated with lung disease, displacement of bilirubin from albumin, exacerbation of sepsis, CNS injury and thrombocytopenia, so some recommend measuring ILE by serum nephelometry in addition to serum cholesterol, triglycerides and free fatty acids.
Granulocytes are a category of white blood cells characterised by the presence of granules in their cytoplasm.
Mature granulocytes comprise neutrophils, eosinophils and basophils, depending on the staining of the granules.
Neutrophils, also called polymorphonuclear leukocytes (PMN or PML) because of the varying shapes of the nucleus, are by far the most abundant granulocytes.
Bupivacaine is a local anaesthetic drug belonging to the amino amide group.
It is commonly marketed under various trade names, including Marcain, Marcaine (CareStream Dental), Sensorcaine (Astra Zeneca) and Vivacaine (Septodont).
Bupivacaine is indicated for local anesthesia including infiltration, nerve block, epidural, and intrathecal anesthesia.
Compared to other local anaesthetics, bupivacaine is markedly cardiotoxic.
However, adverse drug reactions (ADRs) are rare when it is administered correctly.
Most ADRs relate to administration technique (resulting in systemic exposure) or pharmacological effects of anesthesia, however allergic reactions can rarely occur.
CD34 molecule is a cluster of differentiation molecule present on certain cells within the human body.
It is a cell surface glycoprotein and functions as a cell-cell adhesion factor.
It may also mediate the attachment of stem cells to bone marrow extracellular matrix or directly to stromal cells.
CD34 is also the name for the human gene that encodes the protein.
Iron homeostasis diseases are common and may be attributed to iron deficiency or iron overload.
Iron deficiency may be due to increased loss or inadequate absorption.
Iron overload occurs when the erythropoiesis is normal, but the iron exceeds the iron binding capacity of transferrin.
Iron overload may also occur when catabolism of red cells occurs.
Iron levels are used to help diagnose specific types of anemia.
Iron levels are low in iron deficiency anemia and anemia of chronic disease.
Iron levels are normal to increased in sideroblastic anemia and increased in hemolytic anemias,hemochromatosis, and acute liver disease.
Normal to decreased iron levels are seen with protein depletion.
Other tests used as iron status indicators include ferritin, transferrin, TIBC, and iron saturation.(Jacobs and DeMott Laboratory Test Handbook, 5th edition, DS Jacobs, WR DeMott and DK Oxley, 2001.)
In veterinary toxicology, one of the best known types of iron poisoning is in young piglets infected with an iron dextran preparation for the prevention of postnatal anemia.
However, iron intoxication can also occur in other animal species.
The F9 gene (coagulation factor IX) is located on chromosome Xq27.1-q27.2.
This gene encodes vitamin K-dependent coagulation factor IX that circulates in the blood as an inactive zymogen.
This factor is converted to an active form by factor XIa, which excises the activation peptide and thus generates a heavy chain and a light chain held together by one or more disulfide bonds.
The role of this activated factor IX in the blood coagulation cascade is to activate factor X to its active form through interactions with Ca+2 ions, membrane phospholipids, and factor VIII.
Alterations of this gene, including point mutations, insertions and deletions, cause factor IX deficiency, which is a recessive X-linked disorder, also called hemophilia B or Christmas disease.
One of the short-acting SULFONAMIDES used in combination with PYRIMETHAMINE to treat toxoplasmosis in patients with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome and in newborns with congenital infections.
A product formed from skin, white connective tissue, or bone COLLAGEN.
It is used as a protein food adjuvant, plasma substitute, hemostatic, suspending agent in pharmaceutical preparations, and in the manufacturing of capsules and suppositories.
Urea, also called carbamide, is an organic chemical compound involved in the metabolism of nitrogen-containing compounds and in the re-absorption of water and critical ions from excreted urine, an important mechanism in prevention of water loss and maintaining blood pressure.
Urea levels are measured to diagnose conditions that affect the kidneys, such as acute kidney failure or end-stage renal disease (ESRD).
The blood urea nitrogen (BUN) and the urine urea nitrogen (UUN) tests may be used to determine how well a patient's kidneys are functioning.
Increased or decreased levels of urea may also suggest dehydration or increased protein intake.
Amylo-alpha-1,6-glucosidase (AGL, is one of the catalytic sites of the glycogen debrancher enzyme, which is encoded by the AGL gene.
The other catalytic activity is and 4-alpha-glucanotransferase.
These enzymes are involved in glycogen degradation.
Mutations in the AGL gene are associated with glycogen storage disease.
A group of compounds containing the porphin structure, four pyrrole rings connected by methine bridges in a cyclic configuration to which a variety of side chains are attached.
The nature of the side chain is indicated by a prefix, as uroporphyrin, hematoporphyrin, etc.
The porphyrins, in combination with iron, form the heme component in biologically significant compounds such as hemoglobin and myoglobin.
Timothy is native to Europe, North Africa and Northern Asia, and has been introduced and widely cultivated as a hay and pasture grass in North and South America, South Africa and Australia.
It is one of the world's most common grasses and one of the most common sources of animal fodder.
It grows best in cooler, humid climates.
Timothy grass is one of the most important causes of allergic rhinitis, asthma and allergic conjunctivitis during summer in cool temperate climates.
Calcium oxalate is a chemical compound that forms needle-shaped crystals.
Large quantities are found in the painfully poisonous plant dumb cane.
It is also found in rhubarb leaves, various species of Oxalis, and agaves, and (in lower amounts) in spinach.
Most kidney stones are caused by calcium oxalate.
All Arums typically have unique flowers, consisting of a pike of reduced male or female organs, or both, surrounded by a showy petal-like leaf, a bract, which is often colorful.
The toxic parts are the leaves.
They contain calcium oxalate, a compound derived from oxalic acid, as well as enzymes which trigger the release of antibodies called histamines in the bloodstream of persons who ingest the leaves.
Oxalates are needle-like crystals, which, when eaten, may pierce the mouth, throat and digestive tract as they pass through, causing, at the very least, intense discomfort.
Nonsoluble calcium oxalate crystals are found in plant stems, roots, and leaves.
Palmitic acid,CH3(CH2)14COOH or hexadecanoic acid in IUPAC nomenclature, is one of the most common saturated fatty acids found in animals and plants.
As its name indicates, it is a major component of the oil from palm trees (palm oil and palm kernel oil).
The word palmitic is from the French "palmitique", the pith of the palm tree.
Palmitic acid was discovered by Edmond Frémy in 1840, in saponified palm oil.
Butter, cheese, milk and meat also contain this fatty acid.
Palmitate is a term for the salts or esters of palmitic acid.
The palmitate anion is the observed form of palmitic acid at physiological pH.
Bordetella Pertussis toxin 100 IU/ml (PT100) testing detects high concentrations of pertussis toxin-specific antibodies that may be associated with recent vaccination or infection.
Primarily associated with microscopic polyarteritis and pauci-immune GN.
Sarcosine is the N-methyl derivative of glycine.
It is a natural amino acid found in muscles and other body tissues.
In the laboratory, it may be synthesized from chloroacetic acid and methylamine.
Sarcosine is found naturally as an intermediate in the metabolism of choline to glycine.
Sarcosine is sweet to the taste and dissolves in water.
It is used in manufacturing biodegradable surfactants and toothpastes as well as in other applications.
Sarcosine is ubiquitous in biological materials and is present in such foods as egg yolks, turkey, ham, vegetables, legumes, etc.
Sarcosine is reported to be formed from dietary intake of choline and from the metabolism of methionine and is rapidly degraded to glycine, which, in addition to its importance as a constituent of protein, plays a significant role in various physiological processes as a prime metabolic source of components of living cells such as glutathione, creatine, purines and serine.
Sarcosinemia can result from severe folate deficiency because of the folate requirement for the conversion of sarcosine to glycine.
The PIK3CA gene (phosphatidylinositol-4,5-bisphosphate 3-kinase, catalytic subunit alpha) is located on chromosome 3q26.3.
Phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase is composed of an 85 kDa regulatory subunit and a 110 kDa catalytic subunit.
The protein encoded by this gene represents the catalytic subunit, which uses ATP to phosphorylate PtdIns, PtdIns4P and PtdIns(4,5)P2.
This gene has been found to be oncogenic and has been implicated in cervical cancers.
Phase analysis of the timing of myocardial contraction is used in nuclear cardiology to quantify regional ventricular wall motion and evaluate certain conditions, including bundle branch block, ventricular pacing, and pre-excitation syndromes.
Phase and amplitude together are used to classify wall motion, which is also a measure of cardiac dyssynchrony.
The phase value is defined as the amount of shift in the sine or cosine curve (measured in degrees) using the fundamental frequency of the Fourier fitting, and all of the individual phase values are used together to create a phase histogram in order to see the distribution pattern of phase values.
Separate histograms are created for the rest and stress portions of the study.
Multiple parameters are calculated from the histogram: 1. Phase maximum (degrees);
Phase mean (degrees); 3.
Phase standard deviation (degrees); 4. Phase bandwidth, which is defined as 95% of the histogram width (degrees); and 5.
Phase entropy, which is an index of disorder reported on a scale of 0-1 (0-100%), with 0 meaning complete order and 1 meaning complete disorder.
Zimelidine (Normud, Zelmid) was the first selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor (SSRI) antidepressant to be marketed.
It is a pyridylallylamine, and is structurally different from other antidepressants.
Zimelidine has been banned worldwide due to serious, sometimes fatal, cases of central and/or peripheral neuropathy known as Guillain-Barré syndrome and due to a peculiar hypersensitivity reaction involving many organs including skin exanthema, flu-like symptoms, arthralgias, and sometimes eosinophilia.
Additionally, zimelidine was charged to cause an increase in suicidal ideation and/or attempts among depressive patients.
After its ban, it was succeeded by fluvoxamine and fluoxetine (derived from the antihistamine diphenhydramine) in that order, and the other SSRIs.
A monocyte is a mononuclear leukocyte, intimately involved in the initiaton of an immune response.
It also protects against blood-borne pathogens and migrates quickly to sites of infection in the tissues.
Monocytes are usually identified in stained smears by their large bilobed nucleus.
They are produced by the bone marrow from hematopoietic stem cell precursors called monoblasts.
The monoblast is the first stage of monocyte maturation.
The developmental stages (4 subtypes) of the monocytes are: monoblast, promonocyte, immature monocyte, and mature monocyte.
An alkaloid, originally from Atropa belladonna, but found in other plants, mainly SOLANACEAE.
Sericin is a type of protein created by Bombyx mori (silkworms) in the production of silk.
Silk emitted by the silkworm consists of two main proteins, sericin and fibroin; fibroin being the structural center of the silk, and sericin being the sticky material surrounding it.
Erbovirus A, formerly known as Equine rhinitis B virus, is a species within the genus Erbovirus and family Picornaviridae.
Erbovirus A contains three serotypes: equine rhinitis B virus (ERBV)-1, ERBV-2 and ERBV-3, which were formerly known as equine rhinovirus 2, equine rhinovirus 3 and acid-stable equine picornavirus, respectively.
Erbovirus A is associated with respiratory disease in horses and primarily found in nasal, nasopharyngeal and oral secretions.
A calculation derived from the strength of the blood bank blood cell antibodies reaction and the titer result as specified in the technical manual of the AABB.
Pemptoporphyrin is a derivative of protoporphyrin.
Levels of porphoryins, incluing pemptoporphyrin, in urine, feces, or blood may be performed as part of a work-up to diagnose porphyrias, a group of rare inherited or acquired disorders related to porphyrin metabolism.
The chemical structure of pemptoporphyrin is 2(4)-hydryl-1,3,5,8-tetramethyl-4(2)-vinyldeuteroporphyrin IX.
Monosodium glutamate, also known as sodium glutamate and MSG, is a sodium salt of the naturally occurring non-essential amino acid glutamic acid.
It is used as a food additive and is commonly marketed as a flavour enhancer.
Maximum inspiratory pressure (MIP) is the maximum pressure that can be generated against an occluded airway beginning at functional residual capacity (FRC) and reflects the strength and function of inspiratory muscles.
Maximum expiratory pressure (MEP) reflects the strength and function of expiratory muscles.
MIP and MEP can be used to diagnose, assess the severity, and monitor treatment of respiratory muscle weakness.
Api g 1 is the major allergen of celery.
It is a homologue of the major Birch pollen allergen Bet v 1, and is placed it in the Group 1 Fagales protein family.
Borates in chemistry are chemical compounds containing boron oxoanions, with boron in oxidation state +3.
The simplest borate ion is the trigonal planar, BO33−, although many others are known.
BO33− forms salts with metallic elements.
Boron found in nature is commonly as a borate mineral.
Boron is also found combined with silicate to form complex borosilicate minerals such as the tourmalines.
Many borates are readily hydrated and contain structural hydroxide groups and should formally be considered as hydroxoborates.
A thyroid hormone normally synthesized and secreted by the thyroid gland in much smaller quantities than thyroxine (T4).
Most T3 is derived from peripheral monodeiodination of T4 at the 5' position of the outer ring of the iodothyronine nucleus.
The hormone used by the tissues is mainly T3.
Most of the T3 circulating in blood is bound to a protein.
T3 not bound is called free T3.
Pantothenic acid, also called vitamin B5 (a B vitamin), is a water-soluble vitamin required to sustain life (essential nutrient).
Pantothenic acid is needed to form coenzyme-A (CoA), and is critical in the metabolism and synthesis of carbohydrates, proteins, and fats.
In chemical structure, it is the amide between D-pantoate and beta-alanine.
Its name is derived from the Greek pantothen (πάντοθεν) meaning "from everywhere" and small quantities of pantothenic acid are found in nearly every food, with high amounts in whole-grain cereals, legumes, eggs, meat, and royal jelly.
It is commonly found as its alcohol analog, the provitamin panthenol, and as calcium pantothenate.
Pantothenic acid is an ingredient in some hair and skin care products.
Colorado Tick Fever (CTF) also called (Mountain tick fever, Mountain fever, and American mountain fever) is an acute viral infection transmitted from the bite of an infected wood tick (Dermacentor andersoni) a member of the Coltivirus genera.
CTF infects haemopoietic cells especially erythrocytes, which explains how the virus is trasmitted by bloodsicking ticks and also accounts for the incidence of transmission via blood transfusion.
The disease develops from March to September, with the highest infections occurring in May and June.
The disease is found almost exclusively in the western United States and Canada, mostly in high mountain areas such as Colorado and Idaho.
The CTF virus was first isolated from human blood in 1944.
The virus particle, like other Coltiviruses, is ~80 nm in diameter and is generally non-envolped.
The double stranded RNA viral genome is ~20,000bp long and is divided into 12 segments, which are termed Seg-1 to Seg-12.
Rotaviruses are non-enveloped, multilayered, icosahedral viruses composed of an outer layer, an inner layer, and a core.
After the immature, double-layered virus is assembled in the host cell cytoplasm, they bud across the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) and acquire a temporary membrane that has on its surface the ER resident viral glycoproteins NSP4, VP4 and VP7.
The virus loses its temporary membrane and the NSP4 glycoprotein as it moves toward the center of the ER cisternae.
The VP4 and VP7 proteins are pushed to the outermost membrane layer and become the mature triple-layered rotavirus.
The outer capsid glycoprotein VP7 is believed to be important for the attachment to and entry in the host cell.
After it enters the host cell, the VP7 glycoprotein is lost.
When the host cell lyses, the mature virus are released.
There are groups of rotavirus, A through H. Groups A, B, C, and H are associated with an acute gastroenteritis and are found in humans and animals.
Groups D, E, F, and G are found only in animals.
Rotavirus A (RVA) cause an acute gastroenteritis in children and animals.
RVA is the most common infectious organism to cause severe gastroenteritis in children less than 3 years of age.
It is estimated that 95% of children between the ages of 3 and 5 will become infected with RVA.
Approximately 8000 children under 5 years of age in Latin America and the Caribbean die of acute enteritis caused by RVA.
The four serotypes of rotavirus that infect swine include A, B, C and E.
Clue cells are epithelial cells of the vagina and their distinctive stippled appearance is due to certain bacteria.
They indicate bacterial vaginosis, particularly that caused by Gardnerella vaginalis, a group of Gram-negative bacteria.
This bacterial infection gives a foul, fishy smelling yellow/grey frothy vaginal discharge.
Often the vaginal pH is increased above 4.5.
2-Ketobutyric acid is a substance that is involved in the metabolism of many amino acids (glycine, methionine, valine, leucine, serine, threonine, isoleucine) as well as propanoate metabolism and C-5 branched dibasic acid metabolism.
More specifically, alpha-ketobutyric acid is a product of the lysis of cystathionine.
It is also one of the degradation products of threonine.
It can be converted to propionyl-CoA (and subsequently methylmalonyl CoA, which can be converted to succinyl CoA, a citric acid cycle intermediate), and thus enter the citric acid cycle.
A repetitive insertion sequence, IS481, has been found to be present in up to 100 copies within the genome of B. pertussis.
In B. holmesii, 8-10 copies of this insertion sequence can be found.
On rare occasion, the B. bronchiseptica genome may contain a copy of this sequence.
Thus, all these species may test positive in assays targeting the IS481 sequence.
Concurrent culturing is used to differentiate species from B. pertussis and confirm the organism, while targeted DNA testing allows preliminary results to be reported the same day that the specimen is received.
A glucagon stimulation test (also called glucagon challenge test) is used to help diagnose the etiology of hypoglycemia.
A baseline glucose is measured, followed by glucagon administration and subsequent glucose measurement at specific intervals.
An increase in glucose concentration post glucagon is indicative of hyperinsulinism, while a lack of response to glucagon indicates that insufficient glycogen is available.
Glycogen insufficiency could be due to a variety of disorders, including those related to glycogen production, storage, or metabolism, fatty acid oxidation, and cortisol or growth hormone deficiency.
The partial thromboplastin time (PTT) or activated partial thromboplastin time (aPTT or APTT) is a performance indicator measuring the efficacy of both the "intrinsic" (now referred to as the contact activation pathway) and the common coagulation pathways.
Apart from detecting abnormalities in blood clotting, it is also used to monitor the treatment effects with heparin, a major anticoagulant.
It is used in conjunction with the prothrombin time (PT) which measures the extrinsic pathway.
Oats, from an erect, tufted annual grass growing to 1.2 m, are of uncertain origin, but probably arose in Europe from 2 species, Wild oats (A. fatua L.) and Wild red oats (A. sterilis L.).
Oats are now cultivated throughout the temperate zones of the world.
The major growing areas are the USA, southern Canada, the USSR and Europe, particularly near the Mediterranean.
Oats serve as food for humans, animal fodder and bedding, and - especially in the form of extracts - in a variety of industrial uses.
There are many named varieties, with new forms being developed each year.
Oats are available as whole Oat grains when only the husks are removed; Oatmeal from cut or ground Oats; and rolled Oats when grains are cut in slices and then steamed and rolled.
Oats are by far the most nutritious of the cereal grasses.
Oats may uncommonly induce symptoms of food allergy in sensitised individuals.
Symptoms may include angioedema, urticaria, atopic dermatitis, asthma, rhinitis, and gastrointestinal symptoms such as nausea, vomiting and abdominal pain.
Although IgE antibodies may be detected in patients, this may indicate only latent sensitisation.
Moraxella catarrhalis is important cause of otitis media, sinusitis, and lower respiratory tract infections in patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease.
The g1b gene is highly conserved across strains of M catarrhalis, and therefore, its presence in clinical specimens can be used to identify this organism as one of the pathogens responsible for a specific infection.
Ceftolozane/tazobactam is a first-line IV therapy for the treatment of certain serious Gram-negative bacterial infections, including those caused by multi-drug resistant Pseudomonas aeruginosa.
The SLC26A2 gene (solute carrier family 26 member 2) is located on chromosome 5q32.
The diastrophic dysplasia sulfate transporter is a transmembrane glycoprotein implicated in the pathogenesis of several human chondrodysplasias.
It apparently is critical in cartilage for sulfation of proteoglycans and matrix organization.
Itraconazole (marketed as Sporanox ®) is a triazole antifungal agent that is prescribed to patients with fungal infections.
The drug may be given orally or intravenously.
The Interior Live Oak (Quercus wislizeni) is an evergeen oak, highly variable and often shrubby, found in areas of California in the United States.
It also occurs south into northern Baja California in Mexico.
Native to Europe and western Asia, the Hop plant is now cultivated in North and South America, Africa, Asia and Australia.
The plant is a perennial climber growing to 6m at a medium rate.
"Hops" is the common term for either the dried flower heads as a whole or the extract, with a bitter taste and aromatic odour, from the dried pine cone-like fruit of the plant.
Hops contribute flavour and aroma and act as a preservative in brewed alcoholic beverages, and are used medicinally.
The extract may be in solid, liquid or oil form.
Hops may uncommonly induce symptoms of food allergy or skin allergy in non-occupationally sensitised individuals.
Occupational allergy may also commonly be associated with exposure to Hops.
Methyl Diethanolamine is a clear, colorless or pale yellow liquid with an ammonia odour.
It is miscible with water, alcohol and benzene.
Methyl diethanolamine is also known as a MDEA or N-Methyl diethanolamine and has the formula CH3N (C2H4OH)2.
Methyl diethanolamine is a tertiary amine.
Methyl diethanolamine is widely used as a sweating agent or decarbonizer in chemical, oil refinery, syngas production and natural gas.
This compound should not be confused with similarly named MEA or DEA and the commercial drug MDEA
The main active metabolite of Venlafaxine, a drug that is a selective inhibitor of both norepinephrine and serotonin reuptake indicated for manic depression and/or obsessive compulsive disorder.
O-desmethylvenlafaxine is also marketed and sold distinctly under the brand name Pristiq.
Venlafaxine is contraindicated in patients taking MAOI (Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors).
The Coast Live Oak (Quercus agrifolia) is an evergreen oak (highly variable and often shrubby), native to the California Floristic Province.
It grows west of the Sierra Nevada from Mendocino County, California, south to northern Baja California in Mexico.
It is classified in the red oak section (Quercus sect.
Porcine circovirus 2 (PCV2) is an important swine pathogen.
PCV2 has two primary genotypes or strains, a and b. PCV2a was more predominant prior to the advent of vaccines against PCV2a, and since the vaccines were introduced, there has been a global shift in predominance from PCV2a to PCV2b.
Other strains have also been identified, including PCV2c and PCV2d, and a recombinant PCV2b strain (mPCV2b).
Lysozyme is a hydrolytic enzyme and bacteriolytic glycosidase found in all three human neutrophil cytoplasmic granules and is elevated in some cases of myelogenous, and most cases of myelomonocytic and monocytic leukemia.
Revised FAB (French, American, British) criteria indicate that serum or urine lysozyme levels 3 times normal fulfill one of three criteria for the presence of M4/M5 (acute myeloid with monocytic differentiation) vs M2 (acute myeloblastic leukemia with maturation).
This assay may lack specificity for the identification of acute leukemias.
Serum lysozyme has been shown to be elevated in other disorders, such as tuberculosis and sarcoidosis as well as leukemia.
Serum lysozyme has been proposed to monitor the progression or regression of proven sarcoidosis cases.
People with genetic variants or acquired deficiencies of plasma cholinesterase that result in lower enzymatic activity can have a very difficult time recovering from surgery.
To identify these patients, tests using various inhibitory agents are performed.
The most common inhibitors are fluoride and dibucaine.
The degree to which the agent inhibits the enzyme (fluoride number or dibucaine number) can be used to predict neuromuscular recovery after surgery.
Other inhibitors include chloride, RO 020683, and scoline.
Acetyl norfentanyl is the primary metabolite of acetyl fentanyl via hepatic cytochrome P450.
One method used to detect acetyl norfentanyl is solid phase extraction followed by liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrophotometry.
Acetyl fentanyl is a highly potent designer drug and a chemical relative of fentanyl.
Acetyl fentanyl is five times stronger than heroin and use of it can lead to life-threatening symptoms including decreased consciousness, respiratory depression, cerebral hemorrhage and miosis.
Calretinin also known as 29 kDa calbindin is a vitamin D-dependent calcium-binding protein involved in calcium signaling.
In humans, the calretinin protein is encoded by the CALB2 gene.
This gene encodes an intracellular calcium-binding protein belonging to the troponin C superfamily.
Members of this protein family have six EF-hand domains which bind calcium.
This protein plays a role in diverse cellular functions, including message targeting and intracellular calcium buffering.
It also functions as a modulator of neuronal excitability, and is a diagnostic marker for some human diseases, including Hirschsprung disease and some cancers.
Calretinin is abundantly expressed in neurons and in hair follicles
3-Hydroxyoleoylcarnitine is a primary marker for Long-chain L-3-Hydroxy dehydrogenase deficiency, and Trifunctional protein deficiency.
Influenza virus from the family Orthomyxoviridae are enveloped negative-strand RNA viruses with segmented genomes containing seven to eight gene segments.
Of the five genera in the family, only influenza A virus (IAV), influenza B and C viruses are medically relevant to humans.
Influenza A and B viruses have a similar structure whereby these viruses each contain eight discrete single-stranded RNA gene segments, each encoding at least one protein.
While having a close phylogenetic relationship, influenza virus types A and B manifest very differently.
While IAV infects birds, humans and other mammals, influenza B only infects humans and seals.
Although both viruses cause human respiratory infection seasonally in temperate climate regions and more continually in the tropics, influenza B is normally less prevalent and causes less severe disease than IAV viruses.
Research is ongoing to determine the evolutionary and epidemiological factors that shape the genetic diversity of influenza B virus.
A halibut is a type of flatfish from the family of the righteye flounders (Pleuronectidae).
This name is derived from Dutch heilbot.
Halibut live in both the North Pacific and the North Atlantic Oceans, and are highly regarded food fish.
Caffeine testing is used to monitor total Xanthine concentrations in newborns receiving theophylline.
The first highly specific serotonin uptake inhibitor.
It is used as an antidepressant and often has a more acceptable side-effects profile than traditional antidepressants.
Clobazam, (marketed under the brand names Frisium and Urbanol), is a drug which is a benzodiazepine derivative.
It has been marketed as an anxiolytic since 1975 and an anticonvulsant since 1984.
Major histocompatibility complex, class II, DR beta 4, also known as HLA-DRB4, is a human gene.
Glycocholic acid, or cholylglycine, is a crystalline bile acid involved in the emulsification of fats.
It occurs as a sodium salt in the bile of mammals.
It is a conjugate of cholic acid with glycine.
Its anion is called glycocholate.
New Assays for Aldosterone, Renin, and Parathyroid Hormone.
UW Department of Laboratory Medicine
The follicle-stimulating hormone beta (FSHB) gene encodes the follitropin subunit beta protein.
The beta subunit protein, along with an identical alpha subunit, makes up the follicle-stimulating hormone, which is involved in egg and sperm production.
A promoter polymorphism (c.-211G>T; rs10835638) in the FSHB gene was found to significantly reduce FSH serum levels and may be associated with reduced fertility in men (Grigorova et al.
Apolipoproteins are a family of proteins involved in cholesterol transport and metabolism.
Apoliprotein B is a primary protein component of low-density lipoprotein (LDL or "bad" cholesterol), very low-density lipoprotein (VLDL) and chylomicrons and is encoded by the APOB gene.
The liver produces the B-100 form, which includes a region that is recognized by the ApoB/E LDL receptor, and the small intestine produces B-48, which is cleaved from B-100 and does not include the receptor region.
Deficiency of apolipoprotein B is associated with low LDL levels and fat malabsorption, while high levels of circulating apolipoprotein B-100, which can be a result of a defect in the ApoB/E receptor ligand, are associated with high cholesterol and risk for coronary artery disease .
A thioxanthine with effects similar to the phenothiazine antipsychotics.
Art v 3 is a Lipid transfer protein (LTP) form mugwort pollen displaying cross-reactivity to Rosaceae fruit LTPs, such as Pru p 3 from peach and Cor a 8 from hazelnut.
Parathyrin intact (iPTH) levels are requested for the differential diagnosis of calcium-related abnormalities.
The test is useful for diagnosis of primary hyperparathyroidism, secondary hyperparathyroidism, and differential diagnosis of hypercalcemia.
Because there are many fragments of PTH, tests for PTH may measure one or more of the fragments.
None of the assays for intact PTH measure PTH (35-84), which is actually the fragment of PTH present in highest amounts in blood.
Many intact PTH assays measure either PTH (1-84) or PTH (7-84).
In most people, PTH (7-84) is present in much lower amounts than PTH (1-84), so this is not a concern.
But in kidney failure, PTH (7-84) levels increase compared to PTH (1-84), and sometimes over half of what is measured as PTH represents this N-terminal truncated fragment.
Some intact PTH assays do not measure this fragment and will give lower PTH results when increased PTH (7-84) is present.
The CD44 protein is a cell-surface glycoprotein involved in cell-cell interactions, cell adhesion and migration.
It is a receptor for hyaluronic acid and can also interact with other ligands, such as osteopontin, collagens, and matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs).
A specialized sialofucosylated glycoform of CD44 called HCELL is found natively on human hematopoietic stem cells, and is a highly potent E-selectin and L-selectin ligand.
HCELL functions as a "bone homing receptor", directing migration of human hematopoietic stem cells and mesenchymal stem cells to bone marrow.
Interleukin-2 (IL-2) is a cytokine that regulates the differentiation and proliferation of immune cells.
The IL-2 receptor (IL-2R) has three subunits, and different combinations of these subunits have varying affinity for IL-2.
The soluble form of the IL-2 receptor (sIL-2R) does not have cell membrane and cytoplasmic components but retains the ability to bind IL-2.
Elevated sIL-2R in serum and other body fluids may be a marker for the advanced stages of certain cancer as well as autoimmune diseases.
A patient's body fat percentage is the total mass of fat divided by total body mass.
A number of methods are available for determining body fat percentage, such as measurement with calipers, hydrostatic weighing, whole-body air displacement plethysmography, or bioelectrical impedance analysis.
The percentage of body fat in an individual varies according to sex and age.
The SCO2 gene (SCO2 cytochrome c oxidase assembly protein) is located on chromosome 22q13.33.
Cytochrome c oxidase (COX) catalyzes the transfer of electrons from cytochrome c to molecular oxygen, which helps to maintain the proton gradient across the inner mitochondrial membrane that is necessary for aerobic ATP production.
Human COX is a multimeric protein complex that requires several assembly factors; this gene encodes one of the COX assembly factors.
The encoded protein is a metallochaperone that is involved in the biogenesis of cytochrome c oxidase subunit II.
Mutations in this gene are associated with fatal infantile encephalocardiomyopathy and myopia 6.
Rotaviruses are non-enveloped, multilayered, icosahedral viruses composed of an outer layer, an inner layer, and a core.
After the immature, double-layered virus is assembled in the host cell cytoplasm, they bud across the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) and acquire a temporary membrane that has on its surface the ER resident viral glycoproteins NSP4, VP4 and VP7.
The virus loses its temporary membrane and the NSP4 glycoprotein as it moves toward the center of the ER cisternae.
The VP4 and VP7 proteins are pushed to the outermost membrane layer and become the mature triple-layered rotavirus.
The outer capsid glycoprotein VP7 is believed to be important for the attachment to and entry in the host cell.
After it enters the host cell, the VP7 glycoprotein is lost.
When the host cell lyses, the mature virus are released.
There are eight groups of rotavirus, A through H. Groups A, B, C, and H are associated with an acute gastroenteritis and are found in humans and animals.
Groups D, E, F, and G are found only in animals.
Rotavirus A (RVA) are the cause an acute gastroenteritis in children and animals.
RVA is the most common infectious organism to cause severe gastroenteritis in children less than 3 years of age.
It is estimated that 95% of children worldwide between the ages of 3 and 5 will become infected with RVA.
Approximately 8000 children under 5 years of age in Latin America and the Caribbean die of acute enteritis caused by RVA.
Test does not measure the 7-84 fragment which is measured by the Intact PTH method.
Nonstructural protein 5B (NS5b) is a viral protein found in hepatitis C virus (HCV), and has the main function of replicating the HCV viral RNA by using the viral positive RNA strand as its template and catalyzing the polymerization of ribonucleoside triphosphates (rNTP).
The S282T mutation has been identified as the common variant that can confer resistance to sofosbuvir, however, this mutation is not generally present in untreated patients with HCV.
The inferior angle formed by the long axis of the mandibular central incisor and the Nasion-B point line
A second-generation cephalosporin administered intravenously or intramuscularly.
Its bactericidal action results from inhibition of cell wall synthesis.
It is used for urinary tract infections, lower respiratory tract infections, and soft tissue and bone infections.
Hemoglobin E or haemoglobin E (HbE) is an abnormal hemoglobin with a single point mutation in the β chain.
At position 26 there is a change in the amino acid, from glutamic acid to lysine.
HbE is one of the most common variant of normal hemoglobin.
Hemoglobin E can be detected on electrophoresis.
This hemoglobin variant is very common in Southeast Asia and it has a low frequency in black and white people.
The βE mutation affects β-gene expression creating an alternate splicing site in the mRNA at codons 25-27 of the β-globin gene.
Through this mechanism, there is a mild deficiency in normal β mRNA and production of small amounts of anomalous β mRNA.
The reduced synthesis of β chain may cause β thalassemia.
Also, this hemoglobin variant has a weak union between α and β globin, causing instability when there is a high amount of oxidant.
Hemoglobin E disease results when the offspring inherits the gen for HbE from both parents.
At birth, babies homozygous for the hemoglobin E allele do not present symptoms due to HbF (fetal hemoglobin) they still have.
In the first months of life, fetal hemoglobin disappears and the amount of hemoglobin E increases, so the subjects start to have a mild β thalassemia.
People with hemoglobin E do not show any symptoms (there is usually no anemia or hemolysis).
Subjects homozygous for the hemoglobin E allele have a mild hemolytic anemia and mild splenomegaly.
Once LDL accumulates in the subendothelial space, it tends to become modified or oxidized.
This oxidized LDL plays several key roles in furthering the course of the inflammatory process.
It is chemotactic to monocytes; oxidized LDL causes endothelial cells to secrete molecules that cause monocytes to penetrate between the endothelial cells and accumulate in the intima.
Oxidized LDL promotes death of endothelial cells by augmenting apoptosis.
Also, through the activation of collagenases, ox-LDL contributes to a process which may lead to the rupture of the fibrous plaque.
Oxidized LDL decreases the availability of endothelial nitric oxide (NO), which, in turn, increases the adhesion of monocytes to the endothelium.
Moreover, NO is involved in paracrine signalling between the endothelium and the smooth muscle that maintains vascular tone; without it, the muscle will not relax, and the blood vessel remains constricted.
Thus, oxidized LDL also contributes to the hypertension often seen with atherosclerosis.
A non-essential amino acid occurring in nature in the L-isomer form.
It is synthesized from glycine or threonine and is involved in the biosynthesis of putines, pyrimidines, and other amino acids.
C-reactive protein (CRP) is characterized by its precipitation by the C-fraction of pneumococci.
This protein is an acute phase reactant and confers immunity against some bacterial infections.
CRP is a sensitive and quantitative measurement of the body's acute-phase response.
Elevated values are consistent with an acute inflammatory process such as a bacterial infection or rheumatic disease.
Prostaglandin E1 acts as a vasodilator and bronchodilator and inhibits gastric secretion.
It also inhibits platelet aggregation.
Cytidine is a nucleoside that is composed of the base cytosine linked to the five-carbon sugar D-ribose.
Cytidine is a pyrimidine that besides being incorporated into nucleic acids, can serve as substrate for the salvage pathway of pyrimidine nucleotide synthesis; as precursor of the cytidine triphosphate (CTP) needed in the phosphatidylcholine (PC) and phosphatidylethanolamine (PE) biosynthetic pathway.
These variations probably reflect the species differences in cytidine deaminase, the enzyme that converts cytidine to uridine in the body.
The transports of cytidine into the brain's extracellular fluid, and then into neurons and glia, are essential prerequisites for cytidine to be utilized in brain.
An efficient mechanism mediating the brain uptake of circulating cytidine has not yet been demonstrated.
The biosynthesis of PC, the most abundant phosphatide in the brain, via the Kennedy pathway requires phosphocholine and cytidine triphosphate (CTP), a cytidine nucleotide, which is involved in the rate-limiting step.
The enzyme that converts CTP to endogenous CDP-choline (CTP: phosphocholine cytidylyltransferase) is unsaturated at physiological brain CTP levels.
APOBEC is a family of enzymes has been discovered with the ability to deaminate cytidines on RNA or DNA.
The human apolipoprotein B mRNA-editing enzyme, catalytic polypeptide-like 3G (APOBEC3G, or hA3G) protein, provides cells with an intracellular antiretroviral activity that is associated with the hypermutation of viral DNA through cytidine deamination.
Indeed, hA3G belongs to a family of vertebrate proteins that contain one or two copies of a signature sequence motif unique to cytidine deaminases (CTDAs).
In biochemistry, cholinesterase is a family of enzymes that catalyze the hydrolysis of the neurotransmitter acetylcholine into choline and acetic acid, a reaction necessary to allow a cholinergic neuron to return to its resting state after activation.
There are two types:
1. Acetylcholinesterase (AChE), also known as RBC cholinesterase, erythrocyte cholinesterase, or (most formally) acetylcholine acetylhydrolase, found primarily in the blood and neural synapses.
Acetylcholinesterase exists in multiple molecular forms.
In the mammalian brain the majority of AChE occurs as a tetrameric, G4 form (10) with much smaller amounts of a monomeric G1 (4S) form.
2. Pseudocholinesterase (BChE or BuChE), also known as plasma cholinesterase, butyrylcholinesterase, or (most formally) acylcholine acylhydrolase, found primarily in the liver.
The difference between the two types of cholinesterase has to do with their respective preferences for substrates: the former hydrolyses acetylcholine more quickly; the latter hydrolyses butyrylcholine more quickly.
The half-life of pseudocholinesterase is approximately 8-16 hours.
Pseudocholinesterase levels may be reduced in patients with advanced liver disease.
The decrease must be greater than 75% before significant prolongation of neuromuscular blockade occurs with succinylcholine.
An absence or mutation of the pseudocholinesterase enzyme leads to a medical condition known as pseudocholinesterase deficiency.
This is a silent condition that manifests itself only when people that have the deficiency receive the muscle relaxants succinylcholine or mivacurium during a surgery.
Pseudocholinesterase deficiency may also affect local anaesthetic selection in dental procedures.
The enzyme plays an important role in the metabolism of ester-based local anaesthetics, a deficiency lowers the margin of safety and increases the risk of systemic effects with this type of anaesthetic.
The selection of an amide-based solution is recommended in such patients.
Elevation of plasma pseudocholinesterase was observed in 90.5% cases of acute myocardial infarction.
The presence of acetylcholinesterase in the amniotic fluid may be tested in early pregnancy.
A sample of amniotic fluid is removed by amniocentesis, and presence of AChE can confirm several common types of birth defect, including abdominal wall defects and neural tube defects.
Butyrylcholinesterase can be used as a prophylactic agent against nerve gas and other organophosphate poisoning
Folic acid is a B vitamin (Vitamin B9) and helps the body make healthy new cells.
Everyone needs folic acid, especially women who may get pregnant.
Getting enough folic acid before and during pregnancy can prevent major birth defects of the baby's brain or spine.
Foods with folic acid in them include leafy green vegetables, fruits, dried beans, peas, nuts and enriched breads, cereals and other grain products.
The fractional excretion of magnesium (FEMg) is a measure of the percentage of magnesium excreted in the urine versus the magnesium reabsorbed by the kidney.
For hypomagnesemic patients with normal renal function, FEMg is a useful tool for determining the etiology of hypomagnesemia.
A value of more than four per cent is indicative of inappropriate renal magnesium loss.
Histidine ammonia-lyase (or histidase) is an enzyme that converts histidine into ammonia and urocanic acid.
Mutations in the gene for histidase are associated with histidinemia and urocanic aciduria.
Surfactant is a complex mixture of lipids, proteins, and carbohydrates.
Most of the lipids are phospholipids including lecithin (L), sphingomyelin (S), disaturated lecithin, phosphatidyl inositol (PI), and phosphatidyl glycerol (PG).
All of these phospholipids are manufactured by the fetal lung, possess surface tension activity, and are secreted into the amniotic fluid.
Lecithin is present in the lung in the highest concentration, but must be stabilized by PI and/or PG to have maximal surface tension reducing activity.
The relative concentrations of these phospholipids determine the degree of fetal lung maturity.
The fetal risk of RDS can be estimated by measuring the amniotic fluid phospholipid concentrations.
This uroflowmetry panel contains noninvasive diagnostic tests that evaluate the function of the urinary tract (bladder and sphincter) by measuring the volume of urine released from the body, the speed of the release, and how long the release takes.
The patient urinates in a urinal or toilet fitted with a machine that has a measuring device.
The measuring instrument calculates the amount of urine, rate of flow in seconds, and length of time until completion of the void.
Normal values vary depending on age and sex.
Some conditions associated with abnormal results are urinary incontinence, bladder outlet obstruction, or enlarged prostate in males.
Fatty acid ethyl esters (FAEEs), such as ethyl oleate, are nonoxidative ethanol metabolites and suggested toxic mediators of alcohol-induced organ damage.
FAEEs are also thought to be the toxic mediator of alcohol in fetal alcohol syndrome (FAS).
Oyster is a bivalve mollusk.
The edible oysters belong to two genera, Ostrea and Crassostrea.
Oysters in warm seas may take 18 months to reach market size, while in cooler seas, up to 5 years.
Oyster has been reported as both an ingested and occupational allergen.
Oysters are eaten fresh and canned, but also smoked.
The Japanese have extensive off-bottom culture, especially in protected bays.
The Chinese have all over the world exported a pungent sauce made from oyster extract and used for flavoring.
The AKT1 gene (v-akt murine thymoma viral oncogene homolog 1) is located on chromosome 14q32.32.
The serine-threonine protein kinase encoded by the AKT1 gene is catalytically inactive in serum-starved primary and immortalized fibroblasts.
AKT1 and the related AKT2 are activated by platelet-derived growth factor.
The activation is rapid and specific, and it is abrogated by mutations in the pleckstrin homology domain of AKT1.
It was shown that the activation occurs through phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase.
In the developing nervous system AKT is a critical mediator of growth factor-induced neuronal survival.
Survival factors can suppress apoptosis in a transcription-independent manner by activating the serine/threonine kinase AKT1, which then phosphorylates and inactivates components of the apoptotic machinery.
Mutations in this gene have been associated with the Proteus syndrome.
Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants have been found for this gene.
A patient's spiritual, religious, and cultural belief practices, such as a kosher diet or fasting ritual.
Fenethylline, also spelled phenethylline, is a synthetic prodrug used as a stimulant and marketed under the brand name Captagon.
Juniperus occidentalis (Western Juniper and Sierra Juniper) is a shrub or tree native to the western United States, growing in mountains at altitudes of 800-3,000 m (rarely down to 100 m).
Recombinant Prunus avium (rPru av) 1 is the major cherry allergen that causes oral allergy syndrome (OAS) to cherry.
It may be tested along with other cherry LTPs (e.g. rPru av 3, rPru av 4) to provide information on the sensitization to individual component proteins of the cherry allergen.
A species of parasitic nematode that is the largest found in the human intestine.
Its distribution is worldwide, but it is more prevalent in areas of poor sanitation.
Human infection with A. lumbricoides is acquired by swallowing fully embryonated eggs from contaminated soil.
Gain of chromosome region 1q21 is one of the most common chromosomal aberrations in patients with multiple myeloma (MM).
Detection of one or more extra copies of 1q21 has been associated with poor prognosis in patients with newly diagnosed myeloma.
Parechovirus is a viral genus in the family Picornaviridae.
The genus is composed of two species: Human parechovirus and Ljungan virus.
Six types of human parechovirus have been identified: human parechovirus 1 (formerly echovirus 22), human parechovirus 2 (formerly echovirus 23), and human parechoviruses 3, 4, 5 and 6, respectively.
Human parechoviruses cause mild, gastrointestinal or respiratory illness, but have been implicated in cases of myocarditis and encephalitis.
Human parechoviruses are commonly spread and more than 95% of humans are infected by human parechoviruses early in life, within two to five years of age.
Escherichia coli strains with the K1 capsule antigen account for the majority (∼80%) of isolates from patients with neonatal E. coli meningitis (NMEC).
Bacterial meningitis in neonates is a severe infectious disease with mortality rates varying between 10% and 15%.
Infections in adults are less common and usually occur following trauma or surgical procedures.
Methemalbumin analysis is used to evaluate hemolysis.
Presence of methemalbumin appears when haptoglobin becomes saturated.
The number of times a baby attempted to breast feed.
An inhibitor of the enzyme STEROID 11-BETA-MONOOXYGENASE.
It is used as a test of the feedback hypothalamic-pituitary mechanism in the diagnosis of CUSHING SYNDROME.
Purkinje cells (or Purkinje neurons) are a class of GABAergic neuron located in the cerebellar cortex.
These cells are some of the largest neurons in the human brain, with an intricately elaborate dendritic arbor, characterized by a large number of dendritic spines.
Purkinje cells are found within the Purkinje layer in the cerebellum.
Purkinje cells are aligned like dominos stacked one in front of the other.
Their large dendritic arbors form nearly two dimensional layers through which parallel fibers from the deeper-layer granule cells pass.
These parallel fibers make relatively weaker excitatory (glutamatergic) synapses to spines in the Purkinje cell dendrite, whereas climbing fibers originating from the inferior olivary nucleus in the medulla provide very powerful excitatory input to the proximal dendrites and cell soma.
In humans, Purkinje cells are affected in a variety of diseases ranging from toxic exposure (alcohol, lithium), to autoimmune diseases and to genetic mutations (spinocerebellar ataxias, Unverricht-Lundborg disease, autism) and neurodegenerative diseases that are not thought to have a known genetic basis (cerebellar type of multiple system atrophy, sporadic ataxias).
CD9 molecule, also known as CD9, is a human gene.
The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the transmembrane 4 superfamily, also known as the tetraspanin family.
Most of these members are cell-surface proteins that are characterized by the presence of four hydrophobic domains.
The proteins mediate signal transduction events that play a role in the regulation of cell development, activation, growth and motility.
This encoded protein is a cell surface glycoprotein that is known to complex with integrins and other transmembrane
It can modulate cell adhesion and migration and also trigger platelet activation and aggregation.
In addition, the protein appears to promote muscle cell fusion and support myotube maintenance.
Often BPAP is incorrectly referred to as "BiPAP".
BiPAP® is the trade name of a portable ventilator manufactured by Respironics Corporation and is just one of many ventilators that can deliver bi-level positive airway pressure (BPAP).
BiPAP® delivers two levels of pressure by mask in response to patient flow.
It is intended to support ventilation in a non-invasive way.
In contrast, BIPAP (biphasic positive airway pressure) is a mode of ventilation developed for full ventilator support in intensive care settings.
This mode of ventilation is used with an endotracheal tube.
Tinidazole is an anti-parasitic drug used against protozoan infections.
It is widely known throughout Europe and the developing world as treatment for a variety of amoebic and parasitic infections.
Lectin purified from peanuts (ARACHIS HYPOGAEA).
It binds to poorly differentiated cells and terminally differentiated cells and is used in cell separation techniques.
The ATP5A1 gene encodes the alpha subunit of mitochondrial ATP synthase F1 complex.
At least one family with combined oxidative phosphorylation deficiency-22 (COXPD22) was found to have a homozygous missense mutation in the ATP5A1 gene.
Mutations in the ATP5A1 gene can also cause mitochondrial complex V deficiency nuclear type 4 (MC5DN4), which display similar clinical features as COXPD22.
Middle (mid) light scatter (fluorescence) reticulocytes are measured to find the immature reticulocyte fraction (IRF).
IRF is calculated by first dividing the reticulocytes into three categories (low-LFR, medium- MFR, and high fluorescence reticulocytes-HFR), depending on the amount of scatter they produced.
The most immature reticulocytes (HFR) produce higher scatter, with the more mature reticulocytes producing the medium and low scatter.
The IRF is the sum of reticulocyte fractions with medium and high fluorescence.
A rise in IRF is one of the earliest indicators of bone marrow engraftment or recovery from intensive chemotherapy.
The IRF can also be used as an early indicator of response to erythropoietin therapy in patients with chronic renal failure and other diseases.
(Hematology: Clinical Principles and Applications By Bernadette F. Rodak, George A. Fritsma Kathryn Doig, page 556)
The cytochrome P450 (CYP) isozymes 2C8 and 2C9 are involved in the metabolism of many drugs.
Variants in the genes that code for CYP2C8 and CYP2C9 may influence pharmacokinetics of substrates, and may predict or explain non-standard dose requirements, therapeutic failure or adverse reactions.
The CYP2C cluster variant (rs12777823) is associated with a decreased warfarin dose requirement in some people of African descent.
4-Aminobenzoic acid (also known as para-aminobenzoic acid or PABA) is an organic compound with the formula H2NC6H4CO2H. PABA is a white grey crystalline substance that is only slightly soluble in water.
It consists of a benzene ring substituted with an amino group and a carboxyl group.
Glutarylcarnitine+3-Hydroxydecanoylcarnitine is a primary marker for Glutaric acidemia type I and Glutaric acidemia type II.
Secondary marker for Maternal glutaric acidemia type I.
Pompe disease (also known as glycogen storage disease type II and acid maltase deficiency) is an autosomal recessive disorder caused by a deficiency of the lysosomal enzyme acid α-glucosidase (GAA).
Prompt diagnosis and initiation of enzyme replacement therapy with recombinant human GAA (rhGAA) are critical for reducing mortality and disability.
A key predictor of clinical response to replacement therapy is a patient's CRIM (cross-reactive immunological material to GAA) status, which is based on the presence or absence of endogenous GAA.
Patients who are CRIM-positive produce detectable GAA and are typically immunologically tolerant of rhGAA, whereas approximately 20% of patients who are CRIM-negative develop high levels of antibodies against exogenous rhGAA, which eventually reduces the efficacy of therapy .
Leprosy, described as early as the 5th century BC, is an ancient, though still active, chronic infectious disease caused by Mycobacterium leprae.
The exact method of transmission has yet to be discovered, but nasal droplet infection is suspected.
Leprosy predominantly involves the skin and peripheral nervous system.
Forms of leprosy are varied, are largely dependent upon the host individual's immunity or susceptibility to M. leprae, and generally fall into three categories.
Lepromatous leprosy is most common in those with impaired T-cell immunity, and tuberculoid leprosy in individuals with healthy immunity.
Borderline (intermediate) leprosy accounts for the majority of cases and encompassess characteristics of both tuberculoid and lepromatous leprosy.
Diagnosis is made through clinical signs and microscopic evaluation of lymph fluid from skin lesions and nasal mucosa.
PCR, serological and histopathological studies may also be employed depending on the suspected leprosy form.
Flat, nongranulare, diffuse cytoplasmic fluorescence without central interlobular accentuation.
Food allergen mix 6 (fx6) contains buckwheat, rice, sesame seed, wheat and corn IgE antibodies.
Testing for IgE antibodies may be used to help diagnose an allergic disease or the cause of an anaphylactic episode in a patient.
A stable, non-explosive inhalation anesthetic, relatively free from significant side effects.
Borrelia mayonii is the proposed name for a bacterial species found in 2013, causing Lyme disease in six people who live in the upper Midwestern United States.
Worldwide, Lyme disease is caused by three main species of bacteria: Borrelia burgdorferi, B. afzelii, and B. garinii.
Borrelia burgdorferi causes Lyme disease in the United States, while the other two species are the leading causes of Lyme disease in Europe and Asia.
B. mayonii is a new species that is genetically distinct from these three species and is the only species besides B. burgdorferi shown to cause Lyme disease in North America.
B. mayonii has been identified in blacklegged (or "deer") ticks collected in several counties in northwestern Wisconsin and Minnesota.
It is highly likely, however, that infected ticks occur in other areas of both states.
Limited information suggests that illness caused by B. mayonii is similar to that caused by B. burgdorferi, but with a few possible differences.
Like B. burgdorferi, B. mayonii causes fever, headache, rash, and neck pain in the early stages of infection (days after exposure) and arthritis in later stages of infection (weeks after exposure).
Unlike B. burgdorferi however, B. mayonii appears to be associated with nausea and vomiting, diffuse rashes, and a higher concentration of bacteria in the blood.
Patients infected with B. mayonii have been successfully treated with a 2-4 week course of doxycycline.
Amoxicillin, ceftriaxone, and cefuroxime have also been used.
2-Heptanone, or methyl n-amyl ketone, is a ketone with the molecular formula C7H14O.
It is a colorless, water-white liquid with a banana-like, fruity odor.
The 7q11.23 chromosome region is known as the critical region for Williams-Beuren syndrome (WBS), a contiguous gene deletion syndrome cause by a 1.5 to 1.8 Mb hemizygous deletion in this chromosome region containing approximately 28 genes.
WBS is a multisystem disorder with highly variable medical problems, variable developmental delay, and characteristic facial features.
Young children have a pixie like-face, with a flat nasal bridge, short upturned nose, periorbital puffiness, and long philtrum, whereas older patients have slightly coarse features, with full lips, a wide smile, and a full nasal tip.
Another condition known as the 7q11.23 duplication syndrome is caused by a duplication of genes within the 7q11.23 chromosome region.
It is also a multisystem developmental disorder with variable manifestations, most commonly speech delay and mild craniofacial anomalies.
Gliadins are a group of protein in gluten (an elastic protein found in wheat flour) that can elicit an abnormal immune response resulting in the intestinal disorder celiac disease.
Related proteins in barley and rye are also involved in the development of celiac disease.
Symptoms of celiac disease vary with the age of the patient but generally include anemia, fatigue, weight loss, diarrhea, and abdominal pain.
The volume of gas exhaled from the lungs during a single expiration.
Veterinary Medicine: Tulathromycin is a veterinary macrolide antimicrobial drug.
It is used to treat and provide prophylaxis against bovine and swine respiratory disease.
N-acetylglucosamine-6-sulfatase is an enzyme deficient in Sanfilippo syndrome.
The MRPS18A gene (mitochondrial ribosomal protein S18A) is located on chromosome 6p21.3.
Mammalian mitochondrial ribosomal proteins are encoded by nuclear genes and help in protein synthesis within the mitochondrion.
Mitochondrial ribosomes (mitoribosomes) consist of a small 28S subunit and a large 39S subunit.
They have an estimated 75% protein to rRNA composition compared to prokaryotic ribosomes, where this ratio is reversed.
Another difference between mammalian mitoribosomes and prokaryotic ribosomes is that the latter contain a 5S rRNA.
Among different species, the proteins comprising the mitoribosome differ greatly in sequence, and sometimes in biochemical properties, which prevents easy recognition by sequence homology.
This gene encodes a 28S subunit protein that belongs to the ribosomal protein S18P family.
The encoded protein is one of three that has significant sequence similarity to bacterial S18 proteins.
The primary sequences of the three human mitochondrial S18 proteins are no more closely related to each other than they are to the prokaryotic S18 proteins.
A pseudogene corresponding to this gene is found on chromosome 3p.
Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants.
Other species of Bumble bee include Bombus impatiens, B. occidentalis, B. canariensis and Bombus pennsylvanicus (American Bumble Bee).
An insect, which may result in allergy symptoms in sensitised individuals.
Hymenoptera venom allergy is a common problem in many parts of the world.
It is most commonly caused by members of the families Apidae (Bumble bees, Honey bees), Vespidae (Wasps, Yellow hornets, Hornets) and Myrmicidae (ants).
Hymenoptera stings account for more deaths in the United States than any other venom.
Although allergic reactions to Honey bee stings are common, allergy to Bumble bee venom is an uncommon form of Hymenoptera venom allergy.
Norfluoxetine (also called Desmethylfluoxetine, Seproxetine HCl, or (S)-Norfluoxetine) is a selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor (SSRI).
It is the most important active metabolite of the widely used antidepressant fluoxetine (trade names Prozac, Sarafem, and Fontex).
Rhizopus is frequently isolated from both forest and cultivated soils.
It occurs in children's sandboxes.
Typical microhabitats include fresh or decaying litter such as pine needles and leaves.
Other known substrates are sweet potato, cold-stored strawberries, stewed fruits, and the nests, feathers and droppings of wild birds.
The risk for occupational exposure is most likely to occur among food handlers during the storage, transfer and marketing of strawberries, peaches, cherries, corn and peanuts.
Rhizopus nigricans is responsible for opportunistic infections and hypersensitivity reactions such as symptoms of asthma and hypersensitivity pneumonitis in sensitised individuals, and is an important occupational allergen.
Immunoglobulin M (IgM) is a glycoprotein that consists of five disulfide-linked structural units (a pentamer) held together by a J chain.
On the surface of B lymphocytes, however, IgM is found as a monomer and does not express the J chain.
IgM is the first immunoglubulin to be made by a fetus and during an immune response, it is the first immunoglobulin to be detected followed by IgG. IgM is the primary antibody against A and B antigens on red blood cells.
Xylenes (meta, and para) are mildly toxic volatile organic chemicals (VOCs).
They are used in numerous industries and a wide variety of products including gasoline.
No health effects have been noted at the background levels that people are exposed to on a daily basis.
High levels of exposure for short or long periods can cause headaches, lack of muscle coordination, dizziness, confusion, and changes in sense of balance.
Exposure of people to high levels of xylene for short periods can also cause irritation of the skin, eyes, nose, and throat; difficulty in breathing; problems with the lungs; delayed reaction time; memory difficulties; stomach discomfort; and possibly changes in the liver and kidneys.
Very high levels can cause loss of consciousness and death.
In chemistry, acetone (also known as propanone, dimethyl ketone, 2-propanone, propan-2-one and -ketopropane) is the simplest representative of the ketones.
Acetone is a colorless mobile flammable liquid with melting point at ˆ'95.4°C and boiling point at 56.53°C.
It has a relative density of 0.819 (at 0°C).
It is readily soluble in water, ethanol, ether, etc., and itself serves as an important solvent.
The most familiar household use of acetone is as the active ingredient in nail polish remover.
Acetone is also used to make plastic, fibers, drugs, and other chemicals.
Chediak-Higashi syndrome (CHS) is a rare autosomal recessive disorder characterized by variable degrees of albinism, easy bruising, and bleeding.
The hallmark of CHS is the presence of huge cytoplasmic granules in circulating granulocytes and many other cell types.
These are called Chediak-Higashi cells.
Trichophyton rubrum is a fungus that is the most common cause of athlete's foot, jock itch and ringworm.
The growth rate of Trichophyton colonies is slow to moderately rapid.
The texture is waxy, glabrous to cottony.
From the front, the color is white to bright yellowish beige or red violet.
Reverse is pale, yellowish, brown, or reddish-brown.
Although the trichophyton rubrum is the most common of the dermatophytes causing fingernail fungus infections, there are others.
Trichophyton mentagrophytes is the second most common source of fungal nail infections from the dermatophyte group.
In hepatitis B, lamivudine resistance was first described in the YMDD locus of the HBV reverse transcriptase gene.
The HBV reverse transcriptase gene is 344 amino acids long and occupies codons 349 to 692 on the viral genome.
The most commonly encountered resistance mutations are M204V/I/S.
The change in amino acid sequence from YMDD to YIDD results in a 3.2 fold reduction in the error rate of the reverse transcriptase, which correlates with a significant growth disadvantage of the virus.
The Caliciviridae family are a family of viruses, members of Class IV of the Baltimore scheme.
They are positive-sense, single stranded RNA which is non-segmented.
The caliciviruses have been found in a number of organisms such as humans, cattle, pigs, chickens, reptiles, dolphins and amphibians.
The Caliciviridae family include the following genera: Genus Lagovirus (type species: Rabbit hemorrhagic disease virus); Genus Nebovirus;Genus Norovirus (type species: Norwalk virus); Genus Sapovirus (type species: Sapporo virus); Genus Vesivirus (type species: Vesicular exanthema of swine virus)
Calicivirus infections commonly cause acute gastroenteritis, which is the inflammation of the stomach and intestines (e.g. the Norwalk Virus).
Symptoms can include vomiting and diarrhea.
These symptoms emerge after an incubation time of 2 days and the symptoms only generally last for 3 days.
Most calicivirus infections do not call for medical attention, but those who are immunocompromised may need to be hospitalized for rehydration therapy.
1,3-Butadiene is a simple conjugated diene with the formula C4H6.
It is an important industrial chemical used as a monomer in the production of synthetic rubber.
When the word butadiene is used, most of the time it refers to 1,3-butadiene.
Acute exposure results in irritation of the mucous membranes, Higher levels can result in neurological effects such as blurred vision, fatigue, headache and vertigo.
Exposure to the skin can lead to frostbite.
Long-term exposure has been associated with cardiovascular disease, there is a consistent association with leukemia, and weaker association with other cancers.
Paraldehyde is a Schedule IV depressant used most frequently in a hospital setting to treat delirium tremens associated with alcohol withdrawl.
Paraldehyde is sometimes used to treat certain convulsive disorders, including status epilepticus.
Paraldehyde causes the patient's breath to have a strong, characteristic unpleasant odor, which lasts about one day after stopping use of the medicine.
Arabinose is a five carbon sugar found in blood, urine, and cerebrospinal fluid.
Elevated levels of arabinose along with other polyols is associated with disorders of the pentose phosphate pathway (PPP), including transaldolase (TALDO) deficiency and ribose 5-phosphate isomerase (RPI) deficiency .
Uric acid (urate) is a product of the metabolic breakdown of purine nucleotides.
In humans, about 70% of daily uric acid disposal occurs via the kidneys.
Elevated levels of uric acid, or hyperuricemia, may be due to genetic inheritance or diet.
Excess serum levels of uric acid can lead to a type of arthritis known as gout, kidney stones, cardiovascular disease, Type 2 diabetes, and metabolic syndrome.
Lesch-Nyhan syndrome (LNS), an extremely rare inherited disorder, is also associated with very high serum uric acid levels.
Spasticity, involuntary movement and cognitive retardation as well as manifestations of gout are seen in cases of this syndrome.
LNS is due to mutations in the HPRT1 gene.
To date (2012), mutations in nine other genes have been linked to the excretion of uric acid by the kidneys: SLC2A9; ABCG2; SLC17A1; SLC22A11; SLC22A12; SLC16A9; GCKR; LRRC16A; and PDZK1.
Decreased levels of uric acid, known as hypouricemia, can have numerous causes, including low dietary zinc or iron intake.
Hypouricemia has been associated with multiple sclerosis (MS).
A sugar alcohol formed by the reduction of ribose.
Hydroxytriazolam is a major metabolite of the drug Triazolam.
Triazolam belongs to the benzodiazepine class of drugs and is used to treat severe insomnia.
Because it is addictive and has a high potential for abuse, triazolam is listed as a controlled substance.
Betula verrucosa (Bet v) 6 is an antigen on birch pollen known to cause mild allergic reactions in sensitized individuals.
It is also an isoflavone reductase (IFR) which is a protein produced by plants when they are under stress.
IFRs are found on many other plants including apples, pears, bananas, and mangos.
The Bet v 6 antigen has been shown to be 56-80% similar to IFRs present on other plants and may be the cause of pollen-related oral allergy to some foods and in small numbers of patients sensitized to birch pollen.
Thirty-two percent of patients with birch pollen sensitivity have been shown to react to Bet v 6 while 89% reacted to Bet v 1.
Bet v 6 is considered a minor allergen.
Galantamine is a tertiary alkaloid acetylcholinesterase inhibitor drug used to treat patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD).
Patients with AD have deficiencies in the production of acetylcholine, which is essential to attention and consciousness.
These deficiencies are due to neuronal death, decreased choline acetyl transferase synthesis (the primary enzyme needed to produce acetylcholine), and neuroimmunological responses.
The use of acetylcholinesterase inhibitor drugs reduces the breakdown of acetylcholine in patients with AD and markedly improves their cognitive abilities.
However, they are not known to cure AD or prevent the loss of cognitive abilities in the future.
Oxazepam is a short-acting benzodiazepine used to treat anxiety disorders and alcohol withdrawal symptoms.
Oxazepam is also a metabolite of diazepam, chlordiazepoxide, clorazepate, halazepam, prazepam, medazepam, and temazepam.
Information from Tietz Clinical Guide to Laboratory Tests, 4th edition, AHB Wu, 2006.
Carboxyhemoglobin levels are increased due to defective furnaces, automobile exhaust, coal gas, water gas, and most combustibles.
CO is lower in rural areas.
Carboxyhemoglobin levels are measured by colorimetry, GLC, or may be performed on a cooximeter, which also determines total Hb, percent oxyhemoglobin, percent methemoglobin and calculates O2 content.
Elbasvir (formerly MK-8742) is a hepatitis C virus (HCV) NS5A inhibiting antiviral drug for the treatment of HCV infection.
It is used for patients with HCV genotype 1 infection, in a combination product with other complementary hepatitis C antiviral drugs such as grazoprevir and MK-3682.
A conjugated protein which is the oxygen-transporting pigment of muscle.
It is made up of one globin polypeptide chain and one heme group.
Ulex europaeus, gorse, common gorse, furze or whin is an evergreen shrub in the family Fabaceae, native to western Europe from the northerly point of the United Kingdom south to Portugal, and from the westerly point of the Republic of Ireland east to Galicia in Poland and Ukraine.
Lectin extracted from seeds of this species binds to, is remarkably specific for, and is the standard method for identification of H-substance (absent in the hh antigen system) on human red blood cells.
The vast majority of humans express H-substance, which is the basis for the ABO blood group system, but a few rare individuals ("Bombay phenotype") do not-and a chemical isolated from Ulex europaeus is used to identify these individuals.
Recombinant non-glycosylated protein produced in an E. coli strain carrying a cloned cDNA encoding Phleum pratense allergen Phl p 5b
An essential aromatic amino acid that is a precursor of melanin, dopamine, noradrenalin (norepinephrine), and thyroxine.
A unique identifier assigned to the patient's birth certificate.
Sotalol (brand names Betapace and Sorine) is used to treat irregular heartbeats.
Sotalol is in a class of medications called antiarrhythmics (beta-blockers).
It works by acting on the heart muscle to improve the heart's rhythm.
Sotalol may cause dizziness, excessive tiredness, headaches, constipation, swelling in the lower extremities, and chest pain.
Patients with low potassium or magnesium levels should not use sotalol since these conditions can create higher risk for abnormal heart rhythms with the use of this medication.
Immunoglobulin molecules having a specific amino acid sequence by virtue of which they interact only with the ANTIGEN (or a very similar shape) that induced their synthesis in cells of the lymphoid series (especially PLASMA CELLS).
The NPHS1 gene (nephrosis 1, congenital, Finnish type (nephrin)) is located on chromosome 19q13.1.
This gene encodes a member of the immunoglobulin family of cell adhesion molecules that functions in the glomerular filtration barrier in the kidney.
The gene is primarily expressed in renal tissues, and the protein is a type-1 transmembrane protein found at the slit diaphragm of glomerular podocytes.
The slit diaphragm is thought to function as an ultrafilter to exclude albumin and other plasma macromolecules in the formation of urine.
Mutations in this gene result in Finnish-type congenital nephrosis 1, characterized by severe proteinuria and loss of the slit diaphragm and foot processes.
Coumaphos is a tan, crystalline solid insecticide and organophosphate cholinesterase inhibitor.
Coumaphos is used to treat insects on livestock including cattle grubs, screw-worms, lice, scabies, flies, and ticks.
It also can be used against ectoparasites that live on sheep, goats, horses, pigs, and poultry.
It is highly toxic if inhaled or ingested and is moderately toxic if absorbed through the skin.
Symptoms of poisoning in humans are usually due to the inhibition of cholinesterase and include diarrhea, fever, toxic paralysis, fluid retention of the lungs, and high blood pressure.
The Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) had determined that coumaphos is not teratogenic.
There is no evidence that it is mutagenic or carcinogenic.
Coumaphos is extremely poisonous to birds and aquatic invertebrates, and moderately poisonous to fish.
It is a moderate threat to honey bees.
Absidia corymbifera is a fungal species in the genus Absidia.
It can cause human disease.
It is sometimes referred to as Mycocladus corymbifer
2-hydroxyphenylacetic acid is a metabolite of p-tyramine and a biochemical marker for lung cancer, schizophrenia, spina bifida, and some metabolic diseases, such as phenylketonuria (PKU).
2-hydroxyphenylacetic acid is also a metabolite of tyrosine via enteric bacteria.
It is significantly decreased in urine after the use of the antibiotic neomycin.
A beta-2 agonist catecholamine that has cardiac stimulant action without evoking vasoconstriction or tachycardia.
It is proposed as a cardiotonic after myocardial infarction or open heart surgery.
Lauric acid (systematically: dodecanoic acid), a saturated fatty acid, is a white, powdery solid with a faint odor of bay oil or soap.
The GCH1 gene (GTP cyclohydrolase 1) is located on chromosome 14q22.1-q22.2.
This gene encodes a member of the GTP cyclohydrolase family.
The encoded protein is the first and rate-limiting enzyme in tetrahydrobiopterin (BH4) biosynthesis, catalyzing the conversion of GTP into 7,8-dihydroneopterin triphosphate.
BH4 is an essential cofactor required by aromatic amino acid hydroxylases as well as nitric oxide synthases.
Mutations in this gene are associated with malignant hyperphenylalaninemia and dopa-responsive dystonia.
Several alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been described; however, not all variants give rise to a functional enzyme.
Cladosporium is a genus of fungi including some of the most common indoor and outdoor molds.
It produces olive-green to brown or black colonies, and its dark-pigmented conidia are formed in simple or branching chains.
The many species of Cladosporium are commonly found on living and dead plant material.
Some species are plant pathogens; others parasitize other fungi.
Cladosporium spores are wind-dispersed and they are often extremely abundant in outdoor air.
Indoors Cladosporium species may grow on surfaces when moisture is present.
The biochemical precursor substance from which the body synthesizes endomorphins.
It is related to ACTH
Shrimp is considered to be a highly allergenic food and can cause severe reactions.
Numerous shrimp species exist, including Pandalus borealis(deep-water shrimp, cold-water shrimp, northern shrimp, Alaskan pink shrimp, northern red shrimp), Penaeus monodon(giant tiger prawn, black tiger prawn, leader prawn, grass prawn), Metapenaeus joyneri(shiba shrimp), and Metapenaeopsis barbata(whiskered velvet shrimp, red rice shrimp, fired prawn).
Tropomyosin, a highly conserved muscle protein, is one of the major allergens in shrimp.
Anaphylactic reactions, urticaria, gastrointestinal and respiratory symptoms have been reported in allergic patients.
Patients allergic to shrimp typically have allergic reactivity to multiple crustacean species.
The MEN1 gene (multiple endocrine neoplasia I) is located on chromosome 11q13.
This gene encodes menin, a putative tumor suppressor associated with a syndrome known as multiple endocrine neoplasia type 1.
In vitro studies have shown menin is localized to the nucleus, possesses two functional nuclear localization signals, and inhibits transcriptional activation by JunD, however, the function of this protein is not known.
Two messages have been detected on northern blots but the larger message has not been characterized.
Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants.
The products of vitamin B6 metabolism are excreted in the urine; the major product of which is 4-pyridoxic acid
Amorphous crystals (also called amorphous urates) appear as small, sand-like particles with no specific shape (amorphous).
They are commonly seen in the urine of healthy patients.
Amorphous crystals with sodium, potassium, magnesium or calcium substances tend to form in acidic urine and may have a yellow or yellow-brown color.
Amorphous phosphates are similar in appearance to amorphous urates but they tend to form in alkaline urine and lack color.
One of the PENICILLINS which is resistant to PENICILLINASE but susceptible to a penicillin-binding protein.
It is inactivated by gastric acid so administered by injection.
The hearing threshold is the lowest intensity level at which a sound at a specific frequency can be heard.
Intensity is proportional to sound pressure and is related to the perception of loudness, while frequency is related to the perception of pitch.
In audiology, intensity is often expressed in the unit of measure decibels of hearing level (dB HL), which is a ratio of the measured sound intensity to a reference sound intensity value.
A long-acting barbiturate that depresses most metabolic processes at high doses.
It is used as a hypnotic and sedative and may induce dependence.
Barbital is also used in veterinary practice for central nervous system depression.
Sometimes the larger of the sardines (20-30 cm) are called pilchards and the smaller (13-16 cm), sardines.
Distribution is in the Atlantic and Mediterranean.
The catch of sardines has become increasingly important, especially to Spain, Portugal, France and Morocco, where the fish is processed into oil.
The PRNP gene (prion protein) is located on chromosome 20p13.
The protein encoded by this gene is a membrane glycosylphosphatidylinositol-anchored glycoprotein that tends to aggregate into rod-like structures.
The encoded protein contains a highly unstable region of five tandem octapeptide repeats.
This gene is found on chromosome 20, approximately 20 kbp upstream of a gene which encodes a biochemically and structurally similar protein to the one encoded by this gene.
Mutations in the repeat region as well as elsewhere in this gene have been associated with Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease, fatal familial insomnia, Gerstmann-Straussler disease, Huntington disease-like 1, and kuru.
An overlapping open reading frame has been found for this gene that encodes a smaller, structurally unrelated protein, AltPrp.
Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants.
Cyclopropane is a cycloalkane molecule with the molecular formula C3H6, consisting of three carbon atoms linked to each other to form a ring, with each carbon atom bearing two hydrogen atoms.
Cyclopropane and propene have the same empirical formula but have different structures, making them structural isomers.
Segmented neutrophils are commonly referred to as polymorphonuclear neutrophils, PMNs, or "polys".
Therefore, in common usage the term polymorphonuclear leukocyte (or polymorphonuclear WBC) refers to neutrophils.
When PMNs appear in a complete blood count report, it certainly means segmented neutrophils.
However you should apply some caution to interpretation of the meaning of polymorphonuclear, because it is possible to consider all granulocytes, including neutrophils, basophils and eosinophils, as "polymorphonuclear cells" due to the variable shape of their nuclei.
Basophils can therefore be referred to polymorphonuclear basophil (PMB), eosinophils as polymorphonuclear eosinophils (PME), in addition to neutrophils (polymorphonuclear neutrophil, PMN).
CD23, also known as Fc epsilon RII, or FcεRII, is the "low affinity" receptor for IgE, an antibody isotype involved in allergy and resistance to parasites and is important in regulation of IgE levels.
Unlike many of the antibody receptors, CD23 is a C-type lectin.
It is found on mature B cells, activated macrophages, eosinophils, follicular dendritic cells and platelets.
There are two forms of CD23: CD23a and CD23b.
CD23a is unconditionally present on B cells, while CD23b requires IL-4 to be expressed on T-cells, monocytes, Langerhans cells, eosinophils and macrophages.
The allergen responsible in dust mite allergy, Der-p-1, is known to cleave CD23 from a cells surface.
As CD23 is soluble it can move freely and interact with cells in plasma.
Recent studies have shown that increased levels of soluble CD23 cause the recruitment of non-sensitised B-cells in the presentation of antigen peptides to allergen specific B-cells, therefore increasing the production of allergen specific IgE. IgE in turn is known to upregulate the cellular expression of CD23 and Fc epsilon RI (high affinity IgE receptor).
The simplest hydrocarbon, methane, is a gas (at standard temperature and pressure, STP) with a chemical formula of C H 4.
Pure methane is odorless, but when used commercially is usually mixed with small quantities of odorants, strongly-smelling sulfur compounds such as ethanethiol (also called ethyl mercaptan), to enable the detection of leaks.
The principal component of natural gas, methane is a significant and plentiful fuel.
Burning one molecule of methane in the presence of oxygen releases one molecule of CO2 (carbon dioxide) and two molecules of H2 O (water): CH4 + 2O2 †' CO2 + 2H2
OMethane's relative abundance and clean burning process makes it a very attractive fuel.
However, because it is a gas and not a liquid or solid, methane is difficult to transport from the areas that produce it to the areas that consume it.
Converting methane to forms that are more easily transported, such as LNG (liquefied natural gas) and methanol, is an active area of research.
Bacampicillin (INN) is a penicillin antibiotic.
It is a prodrug of ampicillin with improved oral bioavailability.
It is sold under the brand names Spectrobid (Pfizer) and Penglobe (AstraZeneca).
8-hydroxy-deoxyguanosine (8-OHdG) is a sensitive marker of the DNA damage due to hydroxyl radical attack at the C8 of guanine.
This damage, if left unrepaired, has been proposed to contribute to mutagenicity and cancer promotion.
Wishart DS, Knox C, Guo AC, et al. HMDB: a knowledgebase for the human metabolome.
Nucleic Acids Res. 2009 37(Database issue):D603-610.
Artemia salina is a species of brine shrimp - primitive, aquatic crustaceans that are more closely related to Triops and cladocerans than to true shrimp.
An inactive metabolite of PROGESTERONE by reduction at C5, C3, and C20 position.
Pregnanediol has two hydroxyl groups, at 3-alpha and 20-alpha.
It is detectable in URINE after OVULATION and is found in great quantities in the pregnancy urine.
The detection of methylated APC and GSTP1 DNA in serum correlated with the presence of CTC in the blood of breast cancer patients.
Both methylated DNA and CTC correlated with a more aggressive tumor biology and advanced disease.
Target amplification assays are based on the ability of complementary oligonucleotide primers to specifically anneal and allow enzymatic amplification of the target nucleic acid strands.
The GEN-PROBE APTIMA Combo 2 Assay replicates a specific region of the 23S rRNA from CT and a specific region of the 16S rRNA from GC via DNA intermediates.
A unique set of primers is used for each target molecule.
Detection of the rRNA amplification product sequences (amplicon) is achieved using nucleic acid hybridization.
Single-stranded chemiluminescent DNA probes, which are complementary to a region of each target amplicon, are labeled with different acridinium ester molecules.
The labeled DNA probes combine with amplicon to form stable RNA:DNA hybrids.
The Selection Reagent differentiates hybridized from unhybridized probe, eliminating the generation of signal from unhybridized probe.
During the detection step, light emitted from the labeled RNA:DNA hybrids is measured as photon signals in a luminometer, and are reported as Relative Light Units (RLU).
In DKA, differences in the kinetic profiles of the CT and GC labeled probes allow for the differentiation of signal; kinetic profiles are derived from measurements of photon output during the detection read time.
The chemiluminescent detection reaction for CT signal has very rapid kinetics and has the "flasher" kinetic type.
The chemiluminescent detection reaction for GC signal is relatively slower and has the "glower" kinetic type.
Assay results are determined by a cut-off based on the total RLU and the kinetic curve type.
5-hydroxymethyluracil (5-HMU) is a deamination product derived from thymine or 5-methylcytosin and formed as a result of oxidative damage to DNA pyrimidine bases.
Urine 5-HMU may be a biomarker for the oxidative damage and chronic inflammation in colorectal cancer.
Influenza hemagglutinin (HA) is a type of hemagglutinin found on the surface of the influenza viruses.
Three distinct types of hemagglutinin exist in human influenza A viruses - H1, H2, H3.
Nine others have been found in animal FLUA
Sequencing of the 16S rRNA gene is commonly used for taxonomic classification and identification of bacteria.
The 16S gene is approximately 1500bp long and is universal in bacteria, allowing its relationships to be measured among all bacteria.
Because it is universal among all bacteria, detection of 16S RNA can also be used to estimate bacterial load.
The 16S sequence has a role in identifying bacteria that are atypical or rare that are unable to be identified by phenotypic tests alone.
In general there is not enough variation in 16S sequence for its use in distinguishing strains for epidemiological purposes.
Fluorquinolones are among most beneficial drugs used to treat multi-drug resistant Mycobacterium tuberculosis (MDR-TB) infections.
The fluorquinolones affect the activity of DNA gyrase by reducing the cell's ability for DNA replication and transcription.
DNA gyrase in Mycobacterium tuberculosis (TB) is made of two subunits that are encoded by gyrA and gyrB. Mutations in the gyrA quinolone resistance-determining region (QRDR) are responsible for causing most of the drug resistance of TB to the fluoroquinolones.
The gyrB mutations have a much smaller impact on TB resistance to the fluoroquinolones.
Monensin is a polyether antibiotic produced by Streptomyces cinnamonensis.
It is usually administered as the sodium salt and incorporated in the animal's food to improve feed efficiency and for the prevention and control of coccidiosis.
Because of the common use of monensin in the feed industry, swine and other animals may be accidently exposed to monensin and sometimes to toxic concentrations.
Diagnosis of monensin toxicosis is established by observation of typical clinical signs and pathologic changes along with documentation of toxic concentrations of monensin in the feed by chemical analysis.
Myxomatosis (from the Greek (mucus), and (to bleed)) is a disease which infects only rabbits.
It is caused by the myxoma virus.
First observed in Uruguay in the early 1900s, it was deliberately introduced into Australia in an attempt to control rabbit infestation theresee rabbits in Australia.
The macula is the portion of the retina responsible for central vision on which visual images are focused by the lens.
It is located near the center of the retina, within the temporal retinal vascular arcades on the temporal side of the optic nerve.
The macula is the most sensitive part of the retina and is important for visual perception and reading.
The macula is subject to diseases such as macular degeneration.
The fovea is the center of the macula.
The SGCA gene (sarcoglycan, alpha (50kDa dystrophin-associated glycoprotein)) is located on chromosome 17q21.
This gene encodes a component of the dystrophin-glycoprotein complex (DGC), which is critical to the stability of muscle fiber membranes and to the linking of the actin cytoskeleton to the extracellular matrix.
Its expression is thought to be restricted to striated muscle.
Mutations in this gene result in type 2D autosomal recessive limb-girdle muscular dystrophy.
Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
A condition in which an infant or child's weight gain and growth are far below usual levels for age.
The difference in serum and synovial fluid glucose levels is known as the synovial fluid effusion glucose gradient.
This test is part of evaluating the cause and diagnosis of an inflammatory condition, such as rheumatoid arthritis, gonococcal arthritis, systemic lupus erythematosus, gout, and viral inflammation of the synovial lining.
Plasmodium knowlesi is a primate malaria parasite commonly found in Southeast Asia.
It causes malaria in long-tailed macaques (Macaca fascicularis), but it may also infect humans, either naturally or artificially.
Plasmodium knowlesi is the fifth major human malaria parasite.
It may cause severe malaria as indicated by its asexual erythrocytic cycle of about 24 hours, with an associated fever that typically occurs at the same frequency (i.e. the fever is quotidian).
This is an emerging infection that was reported for the first time in humans in 1965.
It accounts for up to 70% of malaria cases in certain areas in South East Asia where it is mostly found.
This parasite is transmitted by the bite of an Anopheles mosquito.
Plasmodium knowlesi has health, social and economic consequences for the regions affected by it.
Although the current infection rate with Plasmodium knowlesi is relatively low, one risk it presents is misdiagnosis with other forms of malarial parasites such as P. malariae especially when microscopy is used.
P. knowlesi can only be accurately distinguished from P. malariae using PCR assay and/or molecular characterization.
Because P. knowlesi takes only 24 hours to complete its erythrocytic cycle, it can result in very high parasite density quickly and may be fatal in humans.
For this reason early treatment is advised.
It responds well to treatment with chloroquine and primaquine.
but if parasite counts are high and patients are severe, then infections should be treated as intensively as for severe falcipaum malaria.
Anaerococcus prevotii and vaginalis are two species in the genus Anaerococcus, and were previously classified under the genus Peptostreptococcus.
Anaerococcus species are Gram positive anaerobic bacteria and can be found as part of normal flora on the skin, mouth, and gastrointestinal tract.
They have been identified as pathogens in skin and soft tissue infections as well as diabetic foot and pressure ulcers, bone and joint infections, abscesses in various locations, and blood infections.
Short-chain acyl-CoA dehydrogenase deficiency (SCAD) is an inherited condition characterized by inadequate levels of an enzyme required to break down short-chain fatty acids.
Some affected infants will exhibit vomiting, hypoglycemia, lethargy, poor feeding, failure to thrive, hypotonia, seizures, developmental delay, and microcephaly.
Some individuals begin to experience signs and symptoms during adulthood, while others remain asymptomatic.
Short-chain acyl-CoA dehydrogenase deficiency is caused by mutations in the ACADS gene and has an autosomal recessive pattern of inheritance.
Anacardium occidentale (Ana o) 3 is a 2S albumin and a major allergen of cashew nuts that elicits an allergic response in 81% of people with a sensitivity to cashews.
2S albumins have a very stable intrinsic structure that is preserved even in harsh environments, such as the gastrointestinal tract where it is believed to initiate an immune response.
Due to its resistance to both hydrolysis in the intestinal tract and denaturation by heat, Ana o 3 is considered a very potent allergen.
Three native large subunit isoforms of recombinant Ana o 3 have been identified to have 16 reactive peptides, four of which produce strong signals.
One isoform shares a fair amount of homology with a walnut isoform and offers a basis for cross-reactivity of walnut with the Ana o 3 isotope.
A tricyclic antidepressant similar to IMIPRAMINE that selectively inhibits the uptake of serotonin in the brain.
It is readily absorbed from the gastrointestinal tract and demethylated in the liver to form its primary active metabolite, desmethylclomipramine.
Butyric acid, also known under the systematic name butanoic acid, is a carboxylic acid with the structural formula CH3CH2CH2-COOH.
Salts and esters of butyric acid are known as butyrates or butanoates.
Butyric acid is found in butter, parmesan cheese, vomit, and as a product of anaerobic fermentation (including in the colon and as body odor).
It has an unpleasant smell and acrid taste, with a sweetish aftertaste (similar to ether).
Ureaplasma is a genus of bacteria belonging to the family Mycoplasmataceae.
As the name imples, ureaplasma is urease positive.
The etiologic agent of plague in man, rats, ground squirrels, and other rodents.
Gerbera is a genus of plants belonging to the Asteraceae (daisies) family and widely used as an ornamental garden plant or as cut flowers.
They have a very high pollen count and may cause an allergic reaction, including rhinitis or conjunctivitis, asthma, and skin rashes.
Vanillactic acid is an acidic catecholamine metabolite normally present in human urine and is increased in the CSF of newborns with neonatal epileptic encephalopathy mimicking aromatic L-amino acid decarboxylase deficiency.
A mixing study measures the aPTT-LA for a 1:1 mixture of the patient's sample with pooled normal plasma (PNP) from healthy donors as a source of coagulation factors.
If the aPTT normalizes in the mixing study, a clotting factor deficiency is presumed to be the cause of the clotting abnormality.
D^u is the D antigen that is expressed only with indirect antihuman testing.
Harmening D, Clahoun L, Polesky H. Modern Blood Banking and Transfusion Practices (2nd Ed.)
Philadephia:FA Davis Company; 1998:110.
A four-carbon sugar that is found in algae, fungi, and lichens.
It is twice as sweet as sucrose and can be used as a coronary vasodilator.
The stimulation threshold is the lowest amount of energy that will capture the heart, meaning initiate depolarization.
The stimulation setting is usually set higher than the threshold to assure capture.
Stimulation threshold is typically expressed in mA for temporary pacemakers and mV for permanent pacemakers.
The ERBB2 gene (erb-b2 receptor tyrosine kinase 2) is located on chromosome 17q12.
This gene encodes a member of the epidermal growth factor (EGF) receptor family of receptor tyrosine kinases.
This protein has no ligand binding domain of its own and therefore cannot bind growth factors.
However, it does bind tightly to other ligand-bound EGF receptor family members to form a heterodimer, stabilizing ligand binding and enhancing kinase-mediated activation of downstream signalling pathways, such as those involving mitogen-activated protein kinase and phosphatidylinositol-3 kinase.
Allelic variations at amino acid positions 654 and 655 of isoform a (positions 624 and 625 of isoform b) have been reported, with the most common allele, Ile654/Ile655, shown here.
Amplification and/or overexpression of this gene has been reported in numerous cancers, including breast and ovarian tumors.
Alternative splicing results in several additional transcript variants, some encoding different isoforms and others that have not been fully characterized.
A muscarinic antagonist used as an antispasmodic and in urinary incontinence.
It has little effect on glandular secretion or the cardiovascular system.
It does have some local anesthetic properties and is used in gastrointestinal, biliary, and urinary tract spasms.
Uranium is a chemical element in the periodic table that has the symbol U and atomic number 92, atomic weight 238.03.
Heavy, silvery-white, metallic, naturally radioactive, uranium belongs to the actinide series.
Its isotopes 235U and to a lesser degree 233U are used as the fuel for nuclear reactors and the explosive material for nuclear weapons.
Depleted uranium (238U) is used in kinetic energy penetrators and armor plating.
Patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) with disease progression treated with ibrutinib has been attributed to histologic transformation or acquired mutations in BTK and PLCG2 genes.
Zonulin is a human protein that can reversibly regulate intestinal permeability by modulating intercellular tight junctions.
Zonulin has been implicated in the pathogenesis of coeliac disease and diabetes mellitus type 1.
Probenecid is a uricosuric drug, primarily used in treating gout or hyperuricemia, that increases uric acid removal in the urine.
Probenecid also decreases the renal excretion of some drugs.
In one study, probenecid was shown to more than double a patient's exposure to oseltamivir (trade name Tamiflu), an antiviral drug used to combat influenza.
This is significant because nations are currently stockpiling oseltamivir in anticipation of an influenza pandemic, and the drug is in short supply.
During World War II, probenecid was used to extend limited supplies of penicillin, and is still currently used to increase antibiotic concentrations in serious infections.
It has also found use as a masking agent by athletes attempting to get away with using performance enhancing drugs.
In the kidneys it is filtered at the glomerulus, secreted in the proximal tubule and reabsorbed in the distal tubule.
Probenecid's exact mechanism of action in the kidneys' nephrons is unknown.
A colorless, odorless, viscous dihydroxy alcohol.
It has a sweet taste, but is poisonous if ingested.
Ethylene glycol is the most important glycol commercially available and is manufactured on a large scale in the United States.
It is used as an antifreeze and coolant, in hydraulic fluids, and in the manufacture of low-freezing dynamites and resins.
The FECH gene (ferrochelatase) is located on chromosome 18q21.3.
The protein encoded by this gene is localized to the mitochondrion, where it catalyzes the insertion of the ferrous form of iron into protoporphyrin IX in the heme synthesis pathway.
Mutations in this gene are associated with erythropoietic protoporphyria.
Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
A pseudogene of this gene is found on chromosome 3.
Insulin-like growth factor binding protein 3 levels are used to diagnose growth hormone deficiency
The FH gene (complement factor H) is located on chromosome 1q32.
This gene is a member of the Regulator of Complement Activation (RCA) gene cluster and encodes a protein with twenty short consensus repeat (SCR) domains.
This protein is secreted into the bloodstream and has an essential role in the regulation of complement activation, restricting this innate defense mechanism to microbial infections.
Mutations in this gene have been associated with hemolytic-uremic syndrome (HUS) and chronic hypocomplementemic nephropathy.
Alternate transcriptional splice variants, encoding different isoforms, have been characterized.
Polyprenol found in animal tissues that contains about 20 isoprene residues, the one carrying the alcohol group being saturated.
A potent and specific HIV protease inhibitor that appears to have good oral bioavailability.
Lecithin belongs to a group of yellow-brownish fatty substances occurring in animal and plant tissues, and in egg yolk.
It is composed of phosphoric acid, choline, fatty acids, glycerol, glycolipids, triglycerides, and phospholipids (e.g., phosphatidylcholine, phosphatidylethanolamine, and phosphatidylinositol).
Lecithin is sometimes used as a synonym for pure phosphatidylcholine, a phospholipid that is the major component of its phosphatide fraction.
Lecithin may be isolated either from egg yolk or from soy beans.
Velvet grass is native and common to most of Europe, though it is absent in the northernmost regions.
It now has a worldwide distribution including temperate regions in western Eurasia, the USSR, and Australia.
It was introduced in North America, where it is occasionally cultivated as meadow.
The name Velvet grass perhaps comes from the appearance its pale purple flower heads make when growing amassed in an open field.
In many countries H. lanatus is considered a weed and only of minor importance for grazing.
Velvet grass pollen can induce asthma, allergic rhinitis and allergic conjunctivitis.
Cranberries are commonly canned as sauce or jelly, or bottled as juice.
They are also a popular pie filling.
Cranberry is found in marshy land in northern North America and Asia and in northern and central Europe.
No clinical allergy to Cranberry has been documented to date.
Ethylone, also known as 3,4-methylenedioxy-N-ethylcathinone (MDEC, bk-MDEA), is an entactogen, stimulant, and psychedelic of the phenethylamine, amphetamine, and cathinone chemical classes.
It is the β-keto analogue of MDEA ("Eve").
Ethylone has only a short history of human use and is reported to be less potent than its relative methylone.
Atypical mononuclear cells are morphologically abnormal lymphocytes or monocytes that may appear in a blood after immunizations or surgery, during infections, or at the onset of autoimmune diseases.
Findings include primitive nuclei with a diffuse chromatin pattern and nucleoli, lobulated nuclei, and hyper-basophilic cytoplasm.
The cells vary greatly in size and shape.
Large numbers of atypical mononuclear cells can be seen with viral infections, including infectious mononucleosis (Epstein-Barr virus), infectious hepatitis (Hepatitis A virus) and bronchitis (adenovirus).
Smaller numbers of atypical lymphocytes are seen in many other viral infections and in some bacterial and protozoan infections.
The biological value of a protein refers to how well and how quickly the body can actually use the protein.
Generally, animal proteins have high biological value, that is, they contain complete essential amino acids necessary for life.
Plant proteins can also be high biological value depending on the food and the clinical situation.
For example, patients with kidney disease have to monitor their phosphorous intake, so a protein such as whey that contains a low level of phosphorus would be considered of high biological value.
For vegetarians, non-meat animal proteins (milk, yogurt, eggs) and high- value plant proteins should be combined with complementary foods (rice and beans for example) to provide all of the essential amino acids.
For patients with inborn errors of metabolism, high biological value proteins are foods that do not contain, or contain very little of, the amino acid that they cannot metabolize.
Hypochromic erythrocytes have a low concentration of hemoglobin and are abnormally light in pigment.
The most common cause of hypochromia is an iron deficiency.
Emesis (vomiting) is the forceful expulsion of the contents of the stomach through the mouth.
It is generally preceded by nausea and can be caused by several factors including food toxins, severe pain, medications and head injuries.
It can also be self-induced in patients with annorexia and bulemia.
1,2,2-Trimethylpropyl methylphosphonate (GD acid) is a metabolite of, and is used to measure exposure to the partent drug, a man-made chemical warfare nerve agent Soman (aka GD).
Nerve agents work similar to organophosphate pesticides-but are much more potent.
Soman is a clear, colorless, tasteless liquid with a slight camphor odor.
It can become a vapor if heated.
Exposure can be through the air, skin contact, eye contact, inhalation, and drinking contaminated water or food.
Mildly exposed people usually recover completely.
Severely exposed people are not likely to survive.
Ampicillin/sulbactam is a combination of the common penicillin-derived antibiotic ampicillin and sulbactam, an inhibitor of bacterial beta-lactamase.
Two different forms of the drug exist.
The first, developed in 1987 and marketed in the United States under the tradename Unasyn, is an intravenous antibiotic.
The second, an oral form called sultamicillin, is marketed under the trade name Ampictam outside of the United States.
Ampicillin/sulbactam is used to treat infections caused by bacteria resistant to beta-lactam antibiotics.
Sulbactam blocks the enzyme which breaks down ampicillin and thereby allows ampicillin to attack and kill the bacteria.
New Delhi Metallo-beta-lactamase (NDM) is an enzyme that makes bacteria resistant to a broad range of beta-lactam antibiotics, including those in the carbapenem family.
NDM-1 presents as the most dominant type.
The NDM gene encodes beta-lactamase enzymes called carbapenemases.
The most common bacteria that make the NDM enzyme are Gram-negative such as Escherichia coli and Klebsiella pneumoniae, but the gene for NDM can spread from one strain of bacteria to another by horizontal gene transfer.
A serovar of the bacterial species LEPTOSPIRA INTERROGANS, whose primary host is the MOUSE.
Intraocular pressure (IOP) is the fluid pressure inside the eye.
Tonometry is the method eye care professionals use to determine the IOP.
IOP is an important aspect in the evaluation of patients at risk for glaucoma.
Most tonometers are calibrated to measure pressure in millimeters of mercury (mmHg).
Anisocytosis indicates that red blood cells seen on blood smears vary in size.
This phenomona occurs in anemia and other blood conditions.
When measured via automatic machines, false diagnostic flagging may be triggered by an elevated WBC count, agglutinated RBCs, RBC fragments, giant platelets or platelet clumps.
The red cell distribution width (RDW) is a measure of anisocytosis.
The A194T mutation is associated with Lamivudine resistance
8-hydroxyamoxapine is a metabolite of Amoxapine.
Amoxapine is a tetracyclic antidepressant used in the treatment of depression, anxiety disorders, panic disorder, and bipolar disorder.
Nordazepam (brand names Nordaz, Stilny, Madar, Vegesan, and Calmday), also known as desoxydemoxepam and desmethyldiazepam, is a benzodiazepine derivative and similar to other benzodiazepine derivatives, it has amnesic, anticonvulsant, anxiolytic, muscle relaxant, and sedative properties.
It is used primarily in the treatment of anxiety.
It is an active metabolite of diazepam, chlordiazepoxide, clorazepate, prazepam, pinazepam, and medazepam.
Detects gram negative endotoxins in aqueous solutions used in patient management.
Fenthion is a yellow to tan, oily liquid that smells like garlic.
It is a powerful cholinesterase used to eradicate insects, birds, mites and ticks.
Fenthion is broadly used in tropical fresh waters to fend off mosquitoes.
Fenthion is toxic if inhaled, ingested or absorbed through the skin.
Symptoms following exposure to fenthion include nausea, vomiting, abdominal cramps, diarrhea, salivation headache, dizziness, weakness, eshaustion, rhinorrhea, chest tightness, blurred vision, cardiac irregularities, and dyspnea.
Liver cytosol (LC-1) autoantibodies can be detected in patients with autoimmune hepatitis type 2. LC-1 are usually not associated with autoimmune hepatitis type 1, drug-induced hepatitis, or primary biliary cirrhosis.
A heavy metal element with the atomic symbol Cu, atomic number 29, and atomic weight 63.55.
The forced expiratory volume in one second (FEV1) is the volume of air that can be exhaled in one second.
It is usually measured as part of the forced vital capacity (FVC), which is the total amount of air that can be exhaled in a full forced exhalation.
The pattern of FVC, FEV1, and the FEV1/FVC ratio can be used together to determine the type of respiratory disease.
A normal or low FVC with an FEV1/FVC of <0.7 indicates obstructive pulmonary disease, while low FVC and FEV1/FVC of >0.7 indicates respiratory disease.
Normal values for FEV1 and FVC vary based on several factors including age, sex, height, and weight.
Rifapentine is Rifamycin antibiotic us to treat both Mycobacterium tuberculosis and latent (inactive) tuberculosis.
Rifapentine can be administered orally or through inhalation.
It is often used in combination with other drugs, most commonly isoniazid, rifampicin, ethambutol, and pyrazinamide.
Citrobacter freundii is a member of the genus Citrobacter which are Gram-negative bacteria in the Enterobacteriaceae family.
It is isolated from soil, water, and clinical specimens (urine, sputum, blood).
It is often the cause of significant opportunistic infections and has been associated with neonatal meningitis and brain abscess.
C. freundii strains have inducible ampC genes encoding resulting in antibiotic resistance.
Parsley has been in human use in the Mediterranean since around 2,000 years ago.
This bright green annual herb is now cultivated almost throughout the world.
Both roots and leaves can be used.
Oil, obtained by steam distillation of ripe seeds of the herb, may be employed for flavouring.
Parsley may commonly induce symptoms of food allergy in sensitised individuals, in particular in individuals with allergic rhinitis from a pollen allergy.
Symptoms include nasal and eye itchiness, laryngeal oedema, wheezing and common symptoms of food allergy.
Anaphylaxis and severe attacks of angioedema and urticaria have been reported
Anti-fibrillarin antibody (AFA), also known as anti-U3-RNP, is an antibody to a nucleolar ribonucleoprotein called fibrillarin, which marks the site of formation of the nucleolus in cells that are dividing.
AFA is associated with systemic sclerosis (scleroderma) and is more prevalent in African American patients with scleroderma compared to other patient populations.
In addition, patients with scleroderma who have AFA tend to be younger at disease onset and have a higher frequency of diffuse cutaneous involvement, pulmonary artery hypertension, musculoskeletal and cardiac involvement, and lower frequency of arthritis.
Aminoglycosides are a class of antibiotics that consists of many different agents, including gentamicin, tobramycin, amikacin, streptomycin, neomycin, and paromomycin, which are approved by the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) and most commonly used for the treatment of serious infections caused by aerobic gram-negative bacilli.
Gentamicin, tobramycin, and amikacin are the most frequently prescribed.
Aminoglycosides are active against mycobacteria and a broad spectrum of aerobic gram-negative and gram-positive organisms.
They are relatively stable against the development of resistance but both intrinsic and acquired mechanisms of resistance have been described.
The COL10A1 gene (collagen, type X, alpha 1) is located on chromosome 6q21-q22.
This gene encodes the alpha chain of type X collagen, a short chain collagen expressed by hypertrophic chondrocytes during endochondral ossification.
Unlike type VIII collagen, the other short chain collagen, type X collagen is a homotrimer.
Mutations in this gene are associated with Schmid type metaphyseal chondrodysplasia (SMCD) and Japanese type spondylometaphyseal dysplasia (SMD).
A colorless, odorless, highly water soluble vinyl monomer formed from the hydration of acrylonitrile.
It is primarily used in research laboratories for electrophoresis, chromatography, and electron microscopy and in the sewage and wastewater treatment industries.
Laminaribiose is a disaccharide which is used notably in the agricultural field and as an antiseptic.
It is in general obtained by hydrolysis or by acetolysis of natural polysaccharides of plant origin.
Golimumab (GLM) is a fully human monoclonal antibody that binds with tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-α) and is used to treat patients with severe to moderate active rheumatoid arthritis, patients with active and progressive psoriatic arthritis alone or with methotrexate, and patients with active ankylosing spondylitis whose response to other therapies has been insufficient.
TNFα is a pro-inflammatory cytokine that produces fever, inflammation, tissue destruction, and possibly shock and death.
GLM differs from other TNF-α inhibitors in that it combines with both the transmembrane and soluble forms of TNF-α.
GLM is administered once a month compared to the other TNF-α inhibitors that require dosing twice a week or every two weeks.
The safety of using GLM is comparable to other TNF-α inhibitors which as a class have an increased risk of opportunistic infections, lymphoma and reactivation of latent tuberculosis.
The GSN gene (gelsolin) is located on chromosome 9q33.2.
The protein encoded by this gene binds to the "plus" ends of actin monomers and filaments to prevent monomer exchange.
The encoded calcium-regulated protein functions in both assembly and disassembly of actin filaments.
Defects in this gene are a cause of familial amyloidosis Finnish type (FAF).
Multiple transcript variants encoding several different isoforms have been found for this gene.
Food allergen mix 73 (fx73, FP73) detects beef (F27), chicken (F83), and pork (F26) IgE antibodies.
Testing for IgE antibodies may be used to help diagnose an allergic disease or the cause of an anaphylactic episode in a patient.
Enzyme and fluorescent-based assays, which were preceded by the RAST test (Radio-AllergoSorbent Test), are performed to detect allergen-specific IgE in the patient's serum.
Candida lusitaniae is a species of yeast in the genus Candida.
C. lusitaniae was initially described as a rare cause of fungemia, with fewer than 30 cases reported between 1979 and 1990.
However, there has been a marked increase in the number of recognized cases of candidemia due to this organism in the last two decades.
Candida lusitaniae is capable of inducing pyelonephritis as well as septicemia.
Bone marrow transplantation and high dose cytoreductive chemotherapy have both been identified as risk factors for infections with this organism.
These patients are often neutropenic for extended periods of time, leaving them susceptible to bacterial and fungal infections, including Candidal infections.
Some investigators have theorized that the widespread use of Amphotericin B empiric antifungal therapy selects for infections with Candida lusitaniae.
CCAAT/enhancer-binding protein alpha is a protein that in humans is encoded by the CEBPA gene.
The protein encoded by this intronless gene is a bZIP transcription factor which can bind as a homodimer to certain promoters and enhancers.
It can also form heterodimers with the related proteins CEBP-beta and CEBP-gamma.
The encoded protein has been shown to bind to the promoter and modulate the expression of the gene encoding leptin, a protein that plays an important role in body weight homeostasis.
Also, the encoded protein can interact with CDK2 and CDK4, thereby inhibiting these kinases and causing growth arrest in cultured cells.
Mutations of the CEBPA gene are a cause of familial AML, and positively correlate with better prognosis
In enzymology, a methylenetetrahydrofolate dehydrogenase (NADP+) is an enzyme that catalyzes the chemical reaction.
The two substrates of this enzyme are 5,10-methylenetetrahydrofolate and NADP+, whereas its 3 products are 5,10-methenyltetrahydrofolate, NADPH, and H+.
This enzyme belongs to the family of oxidoreductases, specifically those acting on the CH-NH group of donors with NAD+ or NADP+ as acceptor.
The systematic name of this enzyme class is 5,10-methylenetetrahydrofolate:NADP+ oxidoreductase.
Other names in common use include N5,N10-methylenetetrahydrofolate dehydrogenase, 5,10-methylenetetrahydrofolate:NADP oxidoreductase, 5,10-methylenetetrahydrofolate dehydrogenase, methylenetetrahydrofolate dehydrogenase, and methylenetetrahydrofolate dehydrogenase (NADP).
This enzyme participates in glyoxylate and dicarboxylate metabolism and one carbon pool by folate.
An antidiabetic sulfonylurea derivative with actions similar to those of chlorpropamide.
The MLH1 gene (mutL homolog 1) is located on chromosome 3p21.3.
This gene was identified as a locus frequently mutated in hereditary nonpolyposis colon cancer (HNPCC), also known as Lynch syndrome.
It is a human homolog of the E. coli DNA mismatch repair gene mutL, consistent with the characteristic alterations in microsatellite sequences (RER+phenotype) found in HNPCC.
Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms.
Additional transcript variants have been described, but their full-length natures have not been determined.
The mitochondrial ribosome recycling factor (MRRF) gene is a protein-coding gene and located on the long arm of chromosome 9 at position 33.2.
Diseases associated with MRRF include end stage renal failure and lyme disease.
Solute carrier organic anion transporter family member 1B1 is a protein that in humans is encoded by the SLCO1B1 gene.
Variations in the SLCO1B1 gene have been significantly associated with a marked increase in systemic exposure to simvastatin and risk of muscle toxicity.
The overall effect size and significance of this association are striking for simvastatin compared to other statins.
Patients with variations in SLCO1B1 (a transporter of simvastatin) may require a lower simvastatin dose or an alternative statin as compared to patients who do not have this variant.
CMV envelope glycoproteins gB (UL55) and gH (UL75) play a role in virus entry and are major targets for neutralizing antibody response.
A metabolite of AMITRIPTYLINE that is also used as an antidepressive agent.
Nortriptyline is used in major depression, dysthymia, and atypical depressions.
Time until 2 mm clot firmness has been achieved after the test has been started.
The TNFRSF1A gene (tumor necrosis factor receptor superfamily, member 1A) is located on chromosome 12p13.2.
The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the TNF-receptor superfamily.
This protein is one of the major receptors for the tumor necrosis factor-alpha.
This receptor can activate NF-kappaB, mediate apoptosis, and function as a regulator of inflammation.
Antiapoptotic protein BCL2-associated athanogene 4 (BAG4/SODD) and adaptor proteins TRADD and TRAF2 have been shown to interact with this receptor, and thus play regulatory roles in the signal transduction mediated by the receptor.
Germline mutations of the extracellular domains of this receptor were found to be associated with the autosomal dominant periodic fever syndrome.
The impaired receptor clearance is thought to be a mechanism of the disease.
Ara h 6 is a 2S albumin seed storage protein and clinically relevant peanut allergen that shares a 59% sequence homology to Ara h 2.
Ara h 6 and Ara h 2 together were found to be the best predictors for moderate to severe peanut allergy.
Both are resistant to thermal processing, gastric acids, and digestive proteases.
They also become more stable in the process of roasting.
Except for a few feral populations, and one extremely endangered wild one (Przewalski's Horse), Horses are domesticated.
Horse allergy occurs among people who regularly handle Horses, either professionally or for recreational purposes, resulting in the induction or exacerbation of asthma, allergic rhinitis, allergic conjunctivitis and occupational asthma.
Horse allergy has also been reported to result in angioedema, respiratory distress, and poorly controlled asthma.
Ketoconazole is a synthetic antifungal drug used to prevent and treat skin and fungal infections, especially in immunocompromised patients such as those with AIDS.
Due to its side-effect profile, it has been superseded by newer antifungals, such as fluconazole and itraconazole.
Ketoconazole is sold commercially as an anti-dandruff shampoo, branded Nizoral®, by Janssen Pharmaceutica.
Ketoconazole is very lipophilic, which leads to accumulation in fatty tissues.
An antidiuretic is an agent or drug that, administered to an organism, helps control body water balance by reducing urination, opposing diuresis.
Turmeric (Curcuma longa) is a rhizomatous herbaceous perennial plant of the ginger family, Zingiberaceae.
Platelet-derived growth factor receptors (PDGFRs) exhibit tyrosine-protein kinase activity and have been implicated in the control of cell proliferation, survival and migration.
PDGF receptors, PDGFR-alpha and PDGFR-beta, have 5 extracellular immunoglobulin-like domains and an intracellular tyrosine kinase domain.
Upon binding a PDGF, the receptors form homo-and heterodimers.
Dimerization of the receptors results in phosphorylation in the complex.
More than 10 different SH2-domain-containing molecules have been shown to bind to different autophosphorylation sites in the PDGF-alpha and -beta receptors.
PDGF-alpha receptors are expressed in oligodendrocyte progenitor cells and PDGF beta receptors are expressed on neurons.
The CAV3 gene (caveolin 3) is located on chromosome 3p25.
This gene encodes a caveolin family member, which functions as a component of the caveolae plasma membranes found in most cell types.
Caveolin proteins are proposed to be scaffolding proteins for organizing and concentrating certain caveolin-interacting molecules.
Mutations identified in this gene lead to interference with protein oligomerization or intra-cellular routing, disrupting caveolae formation and resulting in Limb-Girdle muscular dystrophy type-1C (LGMD-1C), hyperCKemia or rippling muscle disease (RMD).
Alternative splicing has been identified for this locus, with inclusion or exclusion of a differentially spliced intron.
In addition, transcripts utilize multiple polyA sites and contain two potential translation initiation sites.
Lumpyskin disease is a disease caused by a virus of the family Poxviridae, also known as Neethling virus.
It affects cattle and zebus mainly.
but has also been seen in giraffes, African buffalo, and impalas.
Lumpyskin disease was first seen as an epidemic in Zambia in 1929, and since then has affected cattle throughout Africa, including the countries South Africa, Egypt, and Sudan, and in 1989 an outbreak was confirmed in Israel.
It is spread by biting insects.
Lumpyskin disease has an incubation period of two to four weeks.
Symptoms include fever, discharge from the eyes and nose, nodular, necrotic skin lesions, edema of the limbs, and swollen lymph nodes.
Morbidity can be very high but mortality is low.
The disease can be easily confused in its early stages with pseudo-lumpyskin disease.
Two vaccines are available, one a live attenuated version of the Neethling virus, the other a live attenuated version of the sheeppox virus.
The Attention Deficit Hyperactive Disorder or Attention Deficit Disorder (ADHD/ADD) Action Plan is a communication tool medical providers use to inform school staff of a patient's ADHD/ADD diagnosis and treatment protocol.
School staff uses this information to guide and authorize their treatment of the child's ADHD/ADD while at school.
The following information is included in the action plan: 1.
Patient information: demographics, school, grade, parent/guardian, emergency contacts, primary care provider/clinic, 2.
ADHD/ADD description: signs/symptoms, 3.
Treatment protocol during school hours: medication orders (type medication, dosage amount and time), 4.
Additional notes/instructions: free text, and 5.
Acknowledgement: Authorization for administration of medication away from clinic, provider signature and date, parent/guardian authorization: signatures and dates consenting school to give medications.
A species of gram-negative, aerobic bacteria that causes MELIOIDOSIS.
It has been isolated from soil and water in tropical regions, particularly Southeast Asia.
Different methods of lipoprotein analysis produce varying results.
Electrophoresis separates lipoprotein fractions based on size and charge and can differentiate between lipoprotein classes as well as subparticles.
HDL corresponds to the electrophoretic alpha band, LDL to the beta band, IDL to the broad beta band, and VLDL to the pre-beta band.
Each of those bands can be further classified into small and large particles.
LDL can be further characterized as very small, small, medium, and large, and even further as very small-a, very small-b, etc.
Different patterns of lipoprotein fractions are associated with varying risk of cardiovascular disease.
Patients with pattern B (higher levels of small and very small LDL particles) have a higher risk of CVD compared to patients with pattern A (higher levels of medium and large LDL particles).
Constitutive heterochromatin represents compact DNA that contains no genes and includes centromeric and telomeric DNA as well as certain other regions on some chromosomes.
For example, most of the human Y chromosome is made of constitutive heterochromatin.
C-banding, a cytogenetic technique, intensely stains constitutive heterochromatin.
Mutations involving constitutive heterochromatin affect cell differentiation, and some cancers have been associated with abnormalities in constitutive heterochromatin as well as the proteins involved in its formation and maintenance.
Polybrominated biphenyls (PBBs), also called brominated biphenyls or polybromobiphenyls, are a group of manufactured chemicals, of the polyhalogenated compounds.
The OVA1™ Test is a qualitative serum test that combines the results of five immunoassays into a single numerical score.
It is indicated for women who meet the following criteria: over age 18; ovarian adnexal mass present for which surgery is planned, and not yet referred to an oncologist.
The OVA1 Test is an aid to further assess the likelihood that malignancy is present when the physician's independent clinical and radiological evaluation does not indicate malignancy.
The test is not intended as a screening or stand-alone diagnostic assay.
The carob tree, Ceratonia siliqua, is a species of flowering evergreen shrub or tree in the pea family, Fabaceae, that is native to the Mediterranean region
Ibuprofen is a non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) widely marketed under various trademarks, including Herron Blue, Act-3, Advil, Brufen, Motrin, Nuprin, and Nurofen.
It is used for relief of symptoms of arthritis, rheumatism, primary dysmenorrhoea, fever and as an analgesic, especially where there is an inflammatory component.
Ibuprofen was developed by the research arm of Boots Group.
Sweet gum is native to North America and to scattered locations in northeastern and central Mexico, Guatemala, Belize, El Salvador, Honduras, and Nicaragua.
Sweet gum has been introduced into California as well as southwestern British Columbia.
It is now found planted all over the world.
Sweet gum tree produces great quantities of anemophilous pollen, and although anecdotal evidence of allergic sensitisation has been reported, few cases have been documented.
Hydrochlorothiazide (Apo-Hydro ®, Aquazide H ®, Dichlotride ®, Hydrodiuril ®, Microzide ®, Oretic ®), sometimes abbreviated HCT, HCTZ, or HZT is a popular diuretic drug that acts by inhibiting the kidney 's ability to retain water.
This reduces the volume of the blood, decreasing peripheral vascular resistance.
A mold, which may result in allergy symptoms in sensitised individuals.
Tragacanth gum is one of oldest known natural emulsifiers.
The substance is an exudate obtained from the Astragalus species of shrub, an evergreen, which is found in Iran, Asia Minor and Syria.
Tragacanth gum may rarely induce allergy symptoms in sensitised individuals.
Asthma and contact dermatitis have been described.
Excess ingestion can result in diarrhoea, abdominal pain, gas production or constipation.
The FBN2 gene (fibrillin 2) is located on chromosome 5q23-q31.
The protein encoded by this gene is a component of connective tissue microfibrils and may be involved in elastic fiber assembly.
Mutations in this gene cause congenital contractural arachnodactyly.
A food additive, which may result in allergy symptoms in sensitised individuals.
Carob is an evergreen tree probably native to the Middle East.
It is related to Mesquite, Acacia and Tragacanth trees.
Cultivated since antiquity in hot, semiarid regions, it serves as an important forage crop.
The Greeks diffused it in Greece and Italy, but it was afterwards more highly esteemed by the Arabs.
The products of the tree, especially the powder from the pods, are in widespread use both near the tree's habitats and throughout the industrialised world.
The sugary, edible pods produced by some species resemble Locusts-hence the name Locust bean.
As St John the Baptist fed on "honey and locusts", the pod also became known as St John's bread.
Carob/Carob gum may uncommonly induce symptoms of food allergy in sensitised individuals.
Deoxycorticosterone is a steroid hormone produced by the adrenal gland that possess mineralocorticoid activity and acts as a precursor to aldosterone.
Platelet satellitism occurs when platelets suround polymorphonuclear neutrophils to form "rosettes", especially when blood is collected at room temperature in the presence of EDTA.
Valproic acid is a compound used as an anticonvulsant and mood-stabilizing drug, primarily in the treatment of epilepsy and bipolar disorder.
It is also used to treat migraine headaches and schizophrenia.
In epileptics, valproic acid is used to control absence seizures, tonic-clonic seizures (grand mal), complex partial seizures, juvenile myoclonic epilepsy and the seizures associated with Lennox-Gastaut syndrome.
It is also used in treatment of myoclonus.
In some countries, parenteral (administered intravenously) preparations of valproate are used also as second-line treatment of status epilepticus, alternatively to phenytoin.
Related drugs include sodium valproate, used as an anticonvulsant, and a combined formulation, valproate semi-sodium, used as a mood stabilizer and anticonvulsant.
Complement C8 function is test for active complement and is the only definitive assay for C8 deficiency because levels include inactive protein.
Burkholderia pseudomallei (previously Pseudomonas pseudomallei, Malleomyces pseudomallei, Pfeiferella pseudomallei, Bacillus whitmori) aka Whitmore's bacillus is a Gram-negative, bipolar, aerobic, motile rod-shaped bacterium.
A human and animal pathogen, B. pseudomallei causes melioidosis.
B. pseudomallei measures 2-5 um in length and 0.4-0.8 um in diameter and are capable self-propulsion using flagellae.
Endemic in soil and water of South-East Asia and North Australia, the two most important serovars clinically are (Type Iara+ and Type IIara-), corresponding to the above-mentioned geographic locations.
Both serovars are roughly equal in pathogenicity and are distinguished by their ability to metabolize L-arabinose.
The bacteria can grow in a number artficial nutrient environments, especially betaine - and arginine -containing.
In vitro, optimal proliferation temperature is reported around 40°C in pH -neutral or slightly acidic environments (pH 6.8-7.0).
Hen's egg is one of the most frequent causes of immediate food allergy in infants and young children.
Egg white is generally more allergenic than Egg yolk.
Clinical reactions to egg are predominantly IgE-mediated, immediate reactions, characterised by atopic dermatitis, urticaria, angioedema, vomiting, diarrhoea, rhinoconjunctivitis and asthma.
Children with atopic dermatitis may have an immediate exacerbation of symptoms, or a delayed reaction causing a worsening of their dermatitis 1-2 days after exposure to egg.
Delayed reactions are possible and are generally not IgE-mediated, and are probably caused by T-cell sensitisation.
Eosinophilic esophagitis as a result of allergy to egg has been described.
IgE-mediated sensitivity to egg proteins in egg-processing workers has been reported.
Poikilocytosis are abnormally shaped red blood cells (RBC) sometimes seen on blood smears of humans and many wild and domestic animals.
They are more common in some apparently normal small ruminants, particularly goats.
Normal RBC are round, flattened disks that are thinner in the middle than at the edges, whereas a poikilocyte is either a distortion of that normal shape or an entirely different shape.
Generally, poikilocytosis refers to an increase in abnormal RBC of any shape where they make up 10% or more of the total red cell population.
Poikilocytosis is a rather general condition rather than a specific one.
Recombinant non-glycosylated protein produced in an E. coli strain carrying a cloned cDNA encoding Alternaria alternata allergen Alt a 1.
The GAA trinucleotide repeat expansion in the FXN gene causes Friedreich ataxia, a neuromuscular condition with symptoms of ataxia, impaired speech, spasticity, and gradual loss of strength and sensation in the arms and legs.
Most individuals with Friedreich ataxia have the expanded GAA trinucleotide repeat in both copies of the FXN gene.
The GAA segment is repeated 66 to more than 1,000 times.
About 2 percent of people with this condition have an expanded GAA trinucleotide repeat in one copy of the FXN gene and another kind of mutation in the other copy of the gene.
Mutations in the FXN gene disrupt production of frataxin, greatly reducing the amount of this protein in cells.
Potassium (symbol K from Latin:kalium) is a key chemical element involved in neuron function and influencing osmotic balance between cells and interstitial fluid.
Depletion in potassium levels results in deficient fluid and electrolyte balance in the body as well as various nervous and cardiac dysfunctions.
Studies suggest diets high in potassium can reduce the risk of hypertension and possibly stroke.
Foods rich in potassium include parsley, dried apricots, potatoes, bananas, avocados, soybeans, and bran, as well as most fruits, vegetables, meat and fish.
Overall, clear cases of potassium deficiency are rare in healthy individuals.
The one cause or condition that most likely began the sequence of events resulting in the death.
Gentamicin, a high potency antibiotic, is used to screen for antibiotic synergy.
Resistance to the high concentration means that the organism will be resistant when combined with a beta-lactam antibiotic.
Aviadenovirus are viruses that affect birds; they represent one of four genera of the family Adenoviridae, the others being Mastadenovirus, Atadenovirus and Siadenovirus.
They are class I, non-enveloped, icosahedral viruses that are 74-80 nm in diameter, having a double stranded DNA genome of approximately 26-45 kilo-base pairs (kbp) and a guanine/cytosine content of 53-59%.
Naturally acquired aviadenovirus diseases include enteritis, splenitis, inclusion body hepatitis, bronchitis, pulmonary congestion ventriculitis, pancreatitis, and oedema, depending on the species of bird infected.
Acid phosphatase is a phosphatase used to free attached phosphate groups from other molecules during digestion.
It is stored in lysosomes and functions when these fuse with endosomes, which are acidified while they function; therefore, it has an acid pH optimum.
Different forms of acid phosphatase are found in different organs, and their serum levels are used as a diagnostic for disease in the corresponding organs.
For example, elevated prostatic acid phosphatase levels may indicate the presence of prostate cancer.
Flaviviruses assemble as fusion-incompetent immature particles and then undergo conformational change leading to release of infectious virions.
Flavivirus infections also produce combined 'mosaic' particles which can be measured.
U-47700 is an novel synthetic opioid that is a selective μ receptor-agonist with a potency 7.5 times greater than morphine.
It is structural isomer of AH-7921, another synthetic opioid with similar characteristics.
U-47700 was originally studied in the 1970s by the Upjohn Company as a potential analgesic but was never brought to market and has become an emerging drug of abuse.
It is known on the street as "pink" due to its pinkish hue when in pure form, although it is found cut into preparations of heroin (a combination known as "gray death") or fentanyl.
Common effects are analgesia, sedation, euphoria, itching, and miosis.
Because of its receptor affinity (μ-agonist), it has a high risk of addiction and respiratory depression .
Brucella suis is the causative agent of swine brucellosis, a zoonosis affecting pigs.
The disease typically causes chronic inflammatory lesions in the reproductive organs of susceptible animals or orchitis and may even affect joints and other organs.
The most common symptom is abortion in pregnant susceptible hosts at any stage of gestation.
Other manifestations are temporary or permanent sterility, lameness, posterior paralysis, spondylitis, and abscess formation.
It is transmitted mainly by ingestion of infected tissues or fluids, semen during breeding, and suckling infected animals.
In humans, it can cause undulant fever.
Since brucellosis threatens food supply and cause undulant fever, Brucella suis and other Brucella species (B. melitensis, B. abortis, B. ovis, B. canis) are recognized as potential agricultural, civilian, and military bioterrorism agents.
B. suis are gram-negative, facultative intracellular coccobacilli and therefore are capable of growing and reproducing inside of host cells, specifically phagocytic cells.
They are also non-spore-forming, non-capsulated, and non-motile.
Brucella suis are differentiated into five biovars (strains), where bv. 1-3 infect boars and pigs and bv.1 and 3 may cause severe diseases in humans.
In contrast, bv. 2 found in wild boars in Europe show mild or no clinical signs and cannot infect healthy humans, but do infect pigs and hares.
The Coconut Palm (Cocos nucifera) is a member of the Family Arecaceae (palm family).
It is the only species in the genus Cocos.
It is a large palm, growing to 30 m tall, with pinnate leaves 4-6 m long, pinnae 60-90 cm long.
Old leaves break away cleanly leaving the trunk smooth.
The simplest saturated hydrocarbon.
It is a colorless, flammable gas, slightly soluble in water.
It is one of the chief constituents of natural gas and is formed in the decomposition of organic matter.
(Grant & Hackh's Chemical Dictionary, 5th ed)
Palmitoylcarnitine is a primary marker for Very long-chain acyl-CoA dehydrogenase deficiency, Long-chain L-3-Hydroxy dehydrogenase deficiency, Trifunctional protein deficiency, Carnitine palmitoyltransferase I deficiency, Carnitine acylcarnitine translocase deficiency, and Carnitine palmitoyltransferase II deficiency.
Secondary marker for Carnitine uptake defect.
Sulphafurazole (INN, also known as sulfisoxazole) is a sulfonamide antibacterial with an oxazole substituent.
It has antibiotic activity against a wide range of Gram-negative and Gram-positive organisms.
It is sometimes given in combination with erythromycin or phenazopyridine
Allenrolfea is a monotypic plant genus containing the single species Allenrolfea occidentalis, the iodinebush.
This is a low-lying shrub of the southwestern United States and northern Mexico, where it grows in sandy, often salty, distinctly alkaline soils, such as desert washes and saline dry lakebeds.
Glutaric acid (glutarate) is a simple five-carbon linear dicarboxylic acid.
The accumulation of glutaric acid ranging from slightly or intermittently elevated urinary glutaric acid to gross organic aciduria occurs in Glutaric aciduria.
Glutaric aciduria type 1 is an autosomal-recessive disorder resulting from a deficiency of mitochondrial glutaryl-CoA dehydrogenase, GCDH) which is involved in the metabolism of lysine, hydroxylysine, and tryptophan.
Glutaric aciduria type I lead to nonspecific developmental delay, hypotonia, and macrocephaly with cerebral atrophy of prenatal onset.
Treatment is mainly based on restriction of lysine intake, supplementation of carnitine, and an intensification of therapy during intercurrent illnesses.
The major principle of dietary treatment is to reduce the production of glutaric acid and 3-hydroxyglutaric acid by restriction of natural protein in general and of lysine in particular. ,
The repetitive insertion sequence targets pIS1001 and hIS1001 are present in multiple copies per genome of Bordetella parapertussis and B. holmesii, respectively.
The "p" in pIS1001 is for parapertussis and "h" in hIS1001 is for holmesii.
These targets along with other target sequences (e.g. IS481) are used to detect and differentiate between B. pertussis, B. parapertussis, B. holmesii and other Bordetella species.
A species of gram-positive, aerobic bacteria that produces TUBERCULOSIS in humans, other primates, CATTLE; DOGS; and some other animals which have contact with humans.
Growth tends to be in serpentine, cordlike masses in which the bacilli show a parallel orientation.
Corylus avellana (Cor a) 14 is a seed storage protein of hazelnut that measures 13-14 kDa and is a 2S albumin.
2S albumins have a very stable intrinsic structure that is preserved even in harsh environments, such as the gastrointestinal tract where it is believed to initiate an immune response.
The Cor a 14 protein affects 70% of children and 39% of adults sensitive to hazelnut proteins and is associated with severe allergic reactions in both demographic groups.
Cor a 14 sensitivity is predicitive of a severe allergic reaction when exposure to Cor a 14 occurs.
Nateglinide (INN, trade name Starlix) is a drug for the treatment of type 2 diabetes.
ateglinide belongs to the meglitinide class of blood glucose-lowering drugs.
Nateglinide lowers blood glucose by stimulating the release of insulin from the pancreas.
It achieves this by closing ATP-dependent potassium channels in the membrane of the β cells.
This depolarizes the β cells and causes voltage-gated calcium channels to open.
The resulting calcium influx induces fusion of insulin-containing vesicles with the cell membrane, and insulin secretion occurs.
A viscous, hygroscopic amino alcohol with an ammoniacal odor.
It is widely distributed in biological tissue and is a component of lecithin.
It is used as a surfactant, fluorimetric reagent, and to remove CO2 and H2S from natural gas and other gases.
The Kell blood group consists of 25 antigens coded by the KEL gene.
Commonly tested Kell antigens include K, k (Cellano), Kp^a (K little p super a), Kp^b (K little p super b), Js^a (J little s super a), and Js^b (J little s super b).
Other Kell antigens include Ku, Ula, Wka, Kx, Km, and Kp^c.
Antibodies to Kell antigens are important in transfusion medicine, autoimmune hemolytic anemia and hemolytic disease of the newborn, and the Kell system is the third most common cause of these diseases (after ABO and Rh).
CO2 content is a measurement of total CO2 in the blood.
Most of it is in the form of bicarbonate (HCO3) controlled by the kidney.
A small amount (5%) of CO2 is dissolved in the blood as insoluble carbonic acid (H2CO3).
Changes in CO2 content generally relate to metabolic issues, renal function and unusual losses (diarrhea).
Respiratory disease can ultimately effect CO2 content, but only slightly and only if prolonged.
(Operational Medicine 2001, Arterial Blood Gas, Brookside Associates Medical Education Division)
Foods and food groups consumption patterns including; type, amount, indices of diet quality, intake of fluids, and breastmilk and infant formula.
Dicloxacillin (INN) is a narrow spectrum beta-lactam antibiotic.
It is used to treat infections caused by susceptible Gram-positive bacteria.
Notably, it is active against beta-lactamase -producing organisms such as Staphylococcus aureus, which would otherwise be resistant to most penicillins.
It is very similar to flucloxacillin and these two agents are considered interchangeable.
Dicloxacillin is available under a variety of trade names including Diclocil (BMS).
8(9)-Cholestenol is one of the precursors to cholesterol in the cholesterol biosynthetic pathway.
Elevation of 8(9)-cholestenol is the primary marker for X-linked dominant chondrodysplasia punctata 2 (CDPX2), also known as Conradi Hunermann Happle syndrome, a rare disorder associated with abnormal punctate calcification of cartilaginous structures in an asymmetric pattern, scoliosis, congenital hip dislocation, skeletal disease, and characteristic skin lesions.
The disorder is usually lethal in affected males and has variable manifestations in affected females.
CDPX2 is caused by a mutation in the EDP gene, which encodes cholestenol delta-isomerase, the enzyme that metabolizes 8(9)-cholestenol.
Dothiepin (or dosulepin) is a tricyclic antidepressant marketed under the brand names Prothiaden, Dothep, Thaden, and Dopress.
Dothiepin is used for the treatment of major depressive disorder and neuropathic pain.
Common side effects include dry mouth, drowsiness, tremor, hypotension, nausea and tachycardia.
Dothiepin and its metabolites, such as nordothiepin and dothiepin sulfoxide (dothiepin S-oxide), are measured to evaluate drug toxicity.
Porcine reproductive and respiratory syndrome virus (PRRSV), also referred to as Blue-Ear Pig disease, causes significant disease and can lead to reproductive failures such as weak fetuses, mummified fetuses, abortions or still borns.
PRRSV is an RNA virus and belongs to the order Nidovirales, family Arteriviridae and the genus Arterivirus.
PRRSV is spread among all ages of pigs and herds through direct and indirect contact.
PRRSV is considered one of the most economically important infectious agents in the swine industry worldwide.
The continual changing genomic characteristics of the various strains of this virus make testing of herds an important part of disease management.
The SI gene is located on chromosome 3q26.1 and encodes sucrase-isomaltase, an enzyme located in the small intestine brush-border membrane that catalyzes the hydrolysis of dietary sucrose and some of the products of starch digestion.
Mutations in the SI gene are responsible for congenital sucrase-isomaltase deficiency (CSID), a disorder characterized by secretory osmotic diarrhea and failure to thrive due to the malabsorption of sucrose and maltose.
Different SI gene mutations result in different phenotypes depending on whether the mutation disrupts enzyme transport or function.
Infants can present with severe diarrhea and failure to thrive, toddlers and children may have chronic diarrhea without failure to thrive, and adults may present with symptoms of irritable bowel syndrome.
CSID is primarily treated with dietary restriction, and adjuvant enzyme replacement therapy has also been shown to be effective.
CSID follows an autosomal recessive inheritance pattern and the prevalence is approximately 1 in 5,000 people of European descent and as high as 1 in 20 people in the native populations of Greenland, Alaska, and Canada.
Veterinary medicine: Porcine kobuvirus (PKoV) is a non-enveloped RNA virus that belongs in the family Picornaviridae.
Of the three species described for the genus Kobuvirus, the Aichivirus C (AiV-C) is the only species that infects swine.
The virus is transmitted by the fecal-oral route and the extensiveness of infection in domestic pigs ranges from 13-99%.
Wild boars are a suspected reservoir of infection of domestic swine.
PKoV/AiV-C has been isolated in swineherds in many countries across the world, including China, Thailand, Japan, South Korea, Italy, Hungary, Czech Republic, US, Netherlands, Kenya, Uganda, and Brazil.
In China, a herd of piglets infected with PKoV/AiV-C experienced symptoms including diarrhea, dehydration, and vomiting.
PKoV/AiV-C is believed to require other pathogens in order to cause diarrhea in infected pigs, including transmissible gastroenteritis and rotavirus.
While PKoV/AiV-C has never been cultured, there are a number of laboratory methods that are able to detect its RNA or antigens, including reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR), antigen capture enzyme linked immunosorbent assays (ELISA), electron microscopy, and serum neutralization.
There are no vaccines available for PKoV/AiV-C or in development.
The Alpha subunit of glycoprotein hormones is a peptide formed by gene found on chromosome 6.
N,N-Dimethylaniline (DMA) is an organic chemical compound, a substituted derivative of aniline.
It consists of a tertiary amine, featuring dimethylamino group attached to a phenyl group.
This oily liquid is colorless when pure, but commercial samples are often yellow.
It is an important precursor to dyes such as Crystal violet.
The National Pressure Ulcer Advisory Panel redefined the definition of a pressure ulcer and the stages of pressure ulcers in 2007, including the original 4 stages (Non-blanchable erythema - Stage I, partial thickness - Stage II, full thickness skin loss - Stage III, and full thickness tissue loss - Stage IV) and adding 2 stages on deep tissue injury and unstageable pressure ulcers.
As defined by the NPUAP, a pressure ulcer is localized injury to the skin and/or underlying tissue usually over a bony prominence, as a result of pressure, or pressure in combination with shear.
This is the NPUAP stage of the wound tissue of the most severe or highest staged pressure ulcer observed on a patient.
Cytochrome P450-2C19 (CYP2C19; ), a member of the cytochrome P450 mixed-function oxidase system, is involved in the metabolism 10-15% of drugs in current clinical use.
Genetic variations in CYP2C19 can affect the response (i.e., efficacy or toxicity) to drugs metabolized by CYP2C19 and selection of alternative dosing or agents may be necessary in individuals with specific CYP2C19 genetic variations.
CD38 (cluster of differentiation 38) is a glycoprotein found on the surface of many immune cells (white blood cells), including CD4+, CD8+, B and natural killer cells.
It is a marker of cell activation.
The CD38 protein has been connected to HIV infection, leukemias, myelomas, solid tumors, type II diabetes mellitus and bone metabolism, as well as some genetically determined conditions.
It has also been used as a prognostic marker in leukemia.
The gene encoding for CD38 is located on chromosome 4.
CD38 is a novel multifunctional ectoenzyme widely expressed in cells and tissues especially in leukocytes.
CD38 also functions in cell adhesion, signal transduction and calcium signaling.
CD34 is found on hematopoietic stem cells (HSC) as well as many of the more differentiated cells that CD38 is found on, so one method for isolating HSC cells is by selecting for cells that express CD34 but do not express CD38.
The M204S mutations are associated with Lamivudine resistance
Human metapneumovirus (hMPV) is a Paramyxoviridae family virus that causes upper and lower respiratory tract infections in the very young, elderly and those with compromised immune systems.
hMPV can vary in its size, shape and staining properties, and shares similar structure with avian pneumovirus (aMPV) and human respiratory syncytial virus (hRSV).
Typically, molecular testing methods, like reverse transcriptase PCR (RT-PCR), are used to detect hMPV.
hMPV is thought to be responsible for about 5% to 10% of pediatric hospitalizations of those suffering from acute respiratory tract infection.
The "Activation Ratio" is one of the tests ordered after more conventional Fragile X testing is positive.
The test is relevant only in females, where each cell has 2 copies of the X chromosome, only one of which is active.
It is generally performed on full mutant females.
The value is historically reported as a fraction between 0 and 1, and it represents the *proportion* of all the normal FMR1 gene copies that are located on the ACTIVE X chromosome.
Another way of saying this is that it is the proportion of all cells where the normal copy of the FMR1 gene is located on the active X chromosome.
The value is determined by the following formula from band intensities on a Southern blot: (normal unmethylated band intensity) / (sum of band intensities of the normal unmethylated + normal methylated bands)...that is, 2.8kband/(2.8k + 5.0k band).
The clinical relevance is that the higher the activation ratio, the more FMR1 protein is produced, so higher activation ratio is associated with better cognition.
Although the test is called a "Ratio", the LOINC property is "NFr" because the value represents the fraction of cells where the normal FMR1 is active.
The red harvester ant (Pogonomyrmex barbatus) is a large (5-7 millimetres) ant common in the southwest United States.
Broad-spectrum semisynthetic penicillin derivative used parenterally.
It is susceptible to gastric juice and penicillinase and may damage platelet function.
Dabigatran (marketed as Pradaxa in Australia, Europe and USA, Pradax in Canada, and Prazaxa in Japan) is an anticoagulant from the class of the direct thrombin inhibitors.
It is being studied for various clinical indications and in some cases it offers an alternative to warfarin as the preferred orally administered anticoagulant ("blood thinner") since it does not require frequent blood tests for international normalized ratio (INR) monitoring while offering similar results in terms of efficacy.
Micrococcus spp. are commonly associated with the human skin microbiota as well as the microbiome of dairy products such as raw milk and cheese and have even been isolated from amber.
A hydroxylated metabolite of estradiol or estrone that has a hydroxyl group at C3-beta, 16-alpha, and 17-beta position.
Estriol is a major urinary estrogen and during pregnancy, large amounts are produced by the placenta.
Isomers with inversion of the hydroxyl group or groups are called epiestriol.
A hallucinogen formerly used as a veterinary anesthetic, and briefly as a general anesthetic for humans.
Phencyclidine is similar to ketamine in structure and in many of its effects.
Like ketamine, it can produce a dissociative state.
It exerts its pharmacological action through inhibition of NMDA receptors (receptors, N-methyl-D-aspartate).
As a drug of abuse, it is known as PCP and angel dust.
The gene that encodes intimin is the eaeA gene (E. coli attaching-effacing gene).
Porcine enteropathogenic E. coli (PEPEC) is a non-enterotoxigenic strain of E. coli that causes postweaning diarrhea (PWD).
PEPEC attaches to intestinal epithelial cells in a characteristic pattern called attaching and effacing (A/E).
To achieve a close attachment to the enterocytes, PEPEC produces an outer membrane protein called intimin that is critical to induce the distinctive A/E lesion.
The eaeA gene of Enteropathogenic Escherichia coli (EPEC) plays a role in human infection and virulence.
Picea pungens (Colorado Blue Spruce or Blue Spruce) is a species of spruce native to western North America, from southeast Idaho and southwest Wyoming, south through Utah and Colorado to Arizona and New Mexico.
A species of gram-negative bacteria causing chronic respiratory disease in POULTRY.
Porcine reproductive and respiratory syndrome virus (PRRSV) affects swine production worldwide.
The PRRSV genome contains approximately 15,400 nucleotides and is divided into two genotypes, North American (type 2, with prototype isolate VR2332) and European (type 1, with prototype isolate "Lelystad" isolate).
Studies have shown that the genetic diversity of the PRRSV genome arises mainly from a few highly variable regions, such as the segments of open reading frame 1a (ORF1a) coding for nonstructural proteins 1 and 2 and the structural proteins encoded by ORF3-5.
The other regions of the viral genome are less variable.
Gamma-butyrobetaine dioxygenase catalyzes the formation of L-carnitine from gamma-butyrobetaine (G-butyrobetaine).
G-butyrobetaine levels are altered in various carnitine biosynthesis disorders, including X-linked trimethyllysine hydroxylase epsilon (TMLHE) deficiency.
Decreased levels of gamma-butyrobetaine and 3-hydroxy-6-N-trimethyllysine along with increased levels of 6-N-trimethyllysine in plasma and urine were found in a patient with a deletion of exon 2 of the trimethyllysine hydroxylase epsilon (TMLHE) gene.
Quercus lobata, commonly called the valley oak, grows into the largest of North American oaks.
It is endemic to California, growing in the hot interior valleys and foothills.
Maleic anhydride (cis-butenedioic anhydride, toxilic anhydride, dihydro-2,5-dioxofuran) is an organic compound with the formula C2H2(CO)2O. In its pure state it is a colorless or white solid with an acrid odour.
N-acetylprocainamide is the N-acetylated metabolite of procainamide.
It is a class III antiarrhythmic agent.
It can be administered orally or injected, and is eliminated by renal excretion.
Clostridium perfringens is an anaerobic, spore-forming bacteria that is a major cause of food poisoning in the United States.
The disease results from the ingestion food contaminated with enterotoxin-producing C perfringens, usually C perfringens type A. Incubation time is 8-22 hours after ingestion of contaminated food, and symptoms include diarrhea, cramps, and abdominal pain.
Fever, nausea, and vomiting are rare, and the disease lasts about 24 hours.
C perfringens has also been sporadically reported in association with necrotizing enteritis.
Carrot is a biennial, indigenous to Europe.
This member of the Parsley family has lacy green foliage and long, slender, fleshy, orange storage roots, which are eaten raw or cooked.
Wild Carrots have small, woody taproots, but cultivated varieties have been improved by selection and breeding.
Carrot commonly induces symptoms of food allergy, oral allergy syndrome, and asthma in sensitised individuals.
Allergy to Carrot is often associated with allergy to Birch pollen.
Carrot allergy may occur in the elderly.
A GUANOSINE analog that acts as an antimetabolite.
Viruses are especially susceptible.
Used especially against herpes.
A serovar of the bacterial species LEPTOSPIRA INTERROGANS, whose primary hosts include CATTLE and SWINE.
Hexane is a hydrocarbon with the chemical formula C6H14; that is, an alkane with six carbon atoms.
The distance from between the distal crown convexities of the upper and lower permanent first molars, measured along the occlusal plane
Pyrazolam is a benzodiazepine derivative which has structural similarities to alprazolam and bromazepam.
Vedolizumab is a monoclonal antibody used in the treatment of inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) including the subtypes Ulcerative colitis and Crohn's disease.
IBD involves inflammation of the intestinal mucosa by leukocytes that cause a disruption in its barrier function.
The leukocytes involved are T-cells that express α4β7 integrins which are the target for the drug vedolizumab.
Vedolizumab prevents α4β7 integrin from binding with the endothelial surface and T-cells from penetrating the intestinal mucosa.
Vedolizumab has proven to be a safe and effective treatment for IBD based in clinical research.
Clinical studies have shown that vedolizumab helps achieve corticosteroid-free clinical remission.
The MRPS2 gene (mitochondrial ribosomal protein S2) is located on chromosome 9q34.
Mammalian mitochondrial ribosomal proteins are encoded by nuclear genes and help in protein synthesis within the mitochondrion.
Mitochondrial ribosomes (mitoribosomes) consist of a small 28S subunit and a large 39S subunit.
They have an estimated 75% protein to rRNA composition compared to prokaryotic ribosomes, where this ratio is reversed.
Another difference between mammalian mitoribosomes and prokaryotic ribosomes is that the latter contain a 5S rRNA.
Among different species, the proteins comprising the mitoribosome differ greatly in sequence, and sometimes in biochemical properties, which prevents easy recognition by sequence homology.
This gene encodes a 28S subunit protein that belongs to the ribosomal protein S2 family.
Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been observed for this gene.
Psilocybin (also known as psilocybine), is a psychedelic alkaloid of the tryptamine family.
It is present in many species of fungi, including those of the genus Psilocybe, such as Psilocybe cubensis and Psilocybe semilanceata, but also reportedly isolated from a dozen or so other genera.
Psilocybin-containing mushrooms are commonly called magic mushrooms or simply shrooms.
Effects of psilocybin are comparable to LSD, but last for a shorter time, although intensity and duration vary depending on dosage, individual physiology, and set and setting.
The latency is the time from nerve stimulation to the start of the action potential in a nerve conduction study.
The HGSNAT gene is located on chromosome 8 between positions 11.21 and 11.1.
This gene encodes the heparan-alpha-glucosaminide N-acetyltransferase enzyme, also known as N-acetyltransferase, which is present in lysosomes and involved in the degradation of glycosaminoglycans (GAGs).
Over 50 mutations have been found in the HGSNAT gene and are known to cause mucopolysaccharidosis type IIIC (MPS IIIC).
The mutations lead to a reduction or elimination of functional N-acetyltransferase.
Epicoccum has been isolated from cereals, fruits, polluted fresh water, compost beds, insects, human skin and sputum.
It is a secondary decomposer of plants, soil, paper and textiles and is very common on dying substrates, where abundant sporulation can be observed.
A positive RAST was predictive for the outcome of bronchoprovocation response for Epicoccum.
Cytarabine, or cytosine arabinoside, is a chemotherapy agent used mainly in the treatment of hematological malignancies such as acute myeloid leukemia (AML) and non-Hodgkin lymphoma.
Pascopyrum is a monotypic genus of grass containing the sole species Pascopyrum smithii, which is known by the common name western wheatgrass.
This is a sod-forming rhizomatous perennial grass which is native and common in North America
Didanosine is a Nucleoside Reverse Transcriptase Inhibitor(NRTI) antiretroviral drug used in the treatment of HIV.
Drug resistance reports assist with treatment decisions.
The delta aPTT is the difference between the aPTT screen time and aPTT
Streptococcus agalactiae (S. agalactiae) or Group B Streptococcus (GBS) is a gram-positive coccus that causes serious diseases, primarily in neonates, pregnant patients, elderly patients and those with significant underlying diseases.
S. agalactiae typically presents as skin and soft tissue infections; while meningitis and endocarditis are rare presentations, they are marked with serious morbidity and mortality.
Blood cultures confirm S. agalactiae presence.
Chronic kidney disease, cardiac failure, history of neoplasia, history of ischemic heart disease, and diabetes mellitus are risks for acquiring agressive S. agalactiae infection.
Strain is defined as the deformation of a solid object in response to an applied force.
Cardiac strain has multiple components, such as circumferential, longitudinal, and radial, and strain can be either perpendicular or parallel (shear) to the force that is applied.
Principal strain is the direction of greatest deformation.
Strain is calculated as the change in length over a particular time period relative to the original length and is expressed as a percent.
Circumferential and longitudinal strain are typically negative, meaning shortening, while radial strain is normally a positive value, indicating lengthening.
The strain rate is the change in strain over time and has the unit of measure s^-1.
CA 15-3 is a tumor marker for breast cancer.
It is derived from MUC1.
Chlamydophila psittaci is a lethal intracellular bacterial species that causes endemic avian chlamydiosis, epizootic outbreaks in mammals, and respiratory psittacosis in humans.
Chlamydophila psittaci is transmitted by inhalation, contact or ingestion among birds and to mammals.
Psittacosis in birds and in humans often starts with flu-like symptoms and becomes a life-threatening pneumonia.
Many strains remain quiescent in birds until activated under stress.
Birds are excellent, highly mobile vectors for the distribution of chlamydial infection because they feed on, and have access to, the detritus of infected animals of all sorts.
Chlamydophila psittaci was previously classified as Chlamydia psittaci.
The former 'mammalian' Chlamydia psittaci abortion, feline and Guinea pig strains have been moved to three new species (see: Chlamydophila abortus, Chlamydophila felis, Chlamydophila caviae).
A member of the serpin family of proteins that is found in plasma and urine.
It is dependent on heparin and able to inhibit activated protein C, thrombin, kallikrein, and other SERINE ENDOPEPTIDASES.
Beta-galactosidase is a hydrolase enzyme that catalyzes the hydrolysis of beta-galactosides into monosaccharides.
Substrates of different beta-galactosidases include ganglioside GM1, lactosylceramides, lactose, and various glycoproteins.
Alternate or nicknames are beta-gal or b-gal.
Lactase is often confused as an alternate name for Beta-galactosidase, but it is actually simply a sub-class of Beta-galactosidase.
Mitochondrial Antibody is present in approximately 95% of patients with primary biliary cirrhosis (PBC).
Mitochondrial M2 Antibody has an even higher specificity for PBC.
Enrofloxacin is a fluoroquinolone antibiotic sold by the Bayer Corporation under the trade name Baytril®.
Enrofloxacin is currently FDA-approved for treatment of individual pets and domestic animals in the United States.
In September 2005, the FDA withdrew approval of Baytril for use in water to treat flocks of poultry, as this practice was noted to promote the evolution of fluoroquinolone-resistant strains of the bacterium Campylobacter, a human pathogen.
Fluoroquinolones such as ciprofloxacin are widely used in the treatment of human disease.
Eriobotrya japonica, commonly known as loquat, is a dense tree with dark green leaves and clusters of yellow edible fruit.
It is believed to be native to the cool hilly regions of China, but has also been grown in Japan for the last thousand years.
The loquat tree is a member of the Rosaceae family that is known to produce a pollen allergen homolog of the pollen allergen from plants of the Betulaceae (birch) family.
That allergen has been identified as Bet v 1 and is an important pollen-associated food allergen in the Northern hemisphere where birch pollen is present.
(Molecular Allergy Diagnostics, J. Kleine-Tebbe, B. K. Ballmer-Weber, H. Breiteneder, S. Vieths, pp21-42)
A sulfated mucopolysaccharide initially isolated from bovine cornea.
At least two types are known.
Type I, found mostly in the cornea, contains D-galactose and D-glucosamine-6-O-sulfate as the repeating unit; type II, found in skeletal tissues, contains D-galactose and D-galactosamine-6-O-sulfate as the repeating unit.
A thick, syrupy poisonous liquid, C5H8O2, derived from croton oil, having a spicy odor and used in making perfumes and flavoring agents.
An amino acid intermediate in the metabolism of choline.
Colorless prisms, often in rosettes, that can be very large.
Usually of no clinical significance, but may be found in chronic UTI.
Koontz A. Clinical Significance of Formed Elements in Urine.
The salts, esters of salicylic acids, or salicylate esters of an organic acid.
Some of these have analgesic, antipyretic, and anti-inflammatory activities by inhibiting prostaglandin synthesis.
Juglans regia (the Common walnut, Persian walnut, or English walnut), is the original walnut tree of the Old World.
It is native in a region stretching from the Balkans eastward to the Himalayas and southwest China.
The megrim or whiff (Lepidorhombus whiffiagonis) (Walbaum, 1792) is a species of left-eyed Flatfish found in European seas between 100 and 700 metres below sea level.
This species, which is very similar to the Atlantic mackerel Scomber scombrus, is found mostly in the Pacific, but also in the Atlantic, where it is called a Chub mackerel or, in some languages, Spanish mackerel.
Tree allergen mix 5 (tx5, TP5) detects Grey alder (T2), Hazelnut (T4), White elm (T8), Willow (T12), and Cottonwood (T14) IgE antibodies.
Testing for IgE antibodies may be used to help diagnose an allergic disease or the cause of an anaphylactic episode in a patient.
Enzyme and fluorescent-based assays, which were preceded by the RAST test (Radio-AllergoSorbent Test), are performed to detect allergen-specific IgE in the patient's serum.
Rosemary (Rosmarinus officinalis) is a woody, perennial herb with fragrant evergreen needle-like leaves.
It is native to the Mediterranean region.
It is a member of the mint family Lamiaceae, which also includes many other herbs.
The PMS2 gene (PMS1 homolog 2, mismatch repair system component) is located on chromosome 7p22.1.
This gene is one of the PMS2 gene family members found in clusters on chromosome 7.
The product of this gene is involved in DNA mismatch repair.
It forms a heterodimer with MLH1 and this complex interacts with other complexes bound to mismatched bases.
Mutations in this gene are associated with hereditary nonpolyposis colorectal cancer (also known as Lynch syndrome), Turcot syndrome, and are a cause of supratentorial primitive neuroectodermal tumors.
Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been observed for this gene.
Nitrogen dioxide (NO2) is a potentially toxic gas formed from nitrous oxide (NO) in the presence of oxygen (O2).
For patients who are on a mechanical ventilator, the amount of NO2 produced in the ventilator circuit is directly proportional to the concentration of NO and O2 and inversely proportional to minute ventilation and total gas flow.
NO2 monitors detect the amount of NO2 present in the circuit.
The TGFB3 gene (transforming growth factor, beta 3) is located on chromosome 14q24.
This gene encodes a member of the TGF-beta family of proteins.
The encoded protein is secreted and is involved in embryogenesis and cell differentiation.
Defects in this gene are a cause of familial arrhythmogenic right ventricular dysplasia 1.
Conalbumin is a native protein purified from Egg white (Gallus domesticus).
Tissue polypeptide antigen (TPA) is a molecular complex containing cytokeratins 8, 18 and 19.
(Int J Biol Markers.
It has been found to be a tumor marker, elevated in solid tumors, including lung, breast, and bladder.
Tissue polypeptide specific antigen (TPS) is a proteolytic fragment of cytokeratin 18 and is an epitope of TPA.
TPS is also used as a tumor marker for solid tumors, including Wilms tumor.
An E. coli strain carrying a cloned cDNA-encoding Bertholletia excelsa allergen, Ber e 1.
Ber e 1 is a 2S albumin, a common major storage protein found in a number of edible seeds and nuts and recognised as a panallergen.
The 2S albumins are the major storage proteins in Walnut, Mustard, Sesame, Brazil nut, Peanut, Cottonseed, Sunflower and Castor bean.
Allergy to Brazil nut is common.
It frequently has an onset in the first few years of life, generally persists, and accounts for severe and potentially fatal allergic reactions.
Aprobarbital (Oramon) is a barbiturate derivative invented in the 1920s.
It has sedative, hypnotic and anticonvulsant properties, and was used primarily for the treatment of insomnia.
Aprobarbital was never as widely used as more common barbiturate derivatives such as phenobarbital and is now rarely prescribed as it has been replaced by newer drugs with a better safety margin.
Acetophenazine (Tindal) is a typical antipsychotic of the phenothiazine class.
An intracellular proteinase found in a variety of tissue.
It has specificity similar to but narrower than that of pepsin A.
The enzyme is involved in catabolism of cartilage and connective tissue.. (Formerly .
AmpC beta-lactamases (AmpCs) are resistance enzymes produced by pathogenic organisms such as E. coli.
AmpC enzymes hydrolyze a variety of antimicrobials, including cephalosporins, penicillins, and aztreonam.
The presence of AmpC can be detected by comparing the inhibitory concentration (IC) of cefotetan, which induces AmpC, with the IC of cefotetan+cloxacillin, in which cloxacillin is an AmpC inhibitor.
A potent HIV protease inhibitor.
It is used in combination with other antiviral drugs in the treatment of HIV in both adults and children.
Mesoridazine (Serentil) is a piperidine neuroleptic drug belonging to the class of drugs called phenothiazines, used in the treatment of schizophrenia.
It is a metabolite of thioridazine.
The drug's name is derived from the methylsulfoxy and piperidine functional groups in its chemical structure.
It has central antiadrenergic, antidopaminergic, antiserotonergic and weak muscarinic anticholinergic effects.
Serious side effects include akathisia, tardive dyskinesia and the potentially fatal neuroleptic malignant syndrome.
Mesoridazine was withdrawn from the United States market in 2004 due to dangerous side effects, namely irregular heart beat and QT-prolongation of the electrocardiogram.
It currently appears to be unavailable worldwide.
Somatotropin binding protein, also known as growth hormone binding protein (GHBP), binds to growth hormone (GH) and functions to increase the half-life of GH by restricting its distribution and preventing its decay.
GHBP levels are low in the developing fetus, but increase in the several years after birth to adult levels.
There are two forms of GHBP described as low-affinity GHBP and high-affinity GHBP.
Both forms bind to growth hormone; 5% of circulating GH is bound to low-affinity GHBP and 45% is bound to high-affinity GHBP.
There are several congenital and acquired conditions with altered GHBP levels including Laron-type dwarfism, pygmy dwarfism, malnutrition, obesity, insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus, liver cirrhosis, and renal insufficiency.
The most clinically relevant use of GHBP measurements is to confirm suspected Laron dwarfism (where GHBP is absent) or carrier status (GHBP is low).
Zanamivir (INN) is a neuraminidase inhibitor used in the treatment and prophylaxis of Influenzavirus A and Influenzavirus B. Zanamivir was the first neuraminidase inhibitor commercially developed.
It is currently marketed by GlaxoSmithKline under the trade name Relenza.
According to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), no flu, seasonal or pandemic, has shown any signs of resistance to zanamivir.
Proline is an amino acid that is the cyclized form of glutamic acid.
The hydroxylation of proline increases the stability of collagen and is critical for maintaining connective tissue.
Increased with iminoglycinuria,Type I and II hyperprolinemia, and lysinuric protein intolerance.
Carbapenems are stable to AmpC β-lactamases and extended-spectrum-β-lactamases.
Carbapenemases are a diverse group of b-lactamases that are active not only against the oxyimino-cephalosporins and cephamycins but also against the carbapenems.
Aztreonam is stable to the metallo-β-lactamases but many IMP and VIM producers are resistant, owing to other mechanisms.
Carbapenemases were formerly believed to derive only from classes A, B, and D, but a class C carbapenemase has been described.
IMP-type carbapenemases (one of the metallo-β-lactamases)(class B): Plasmid-mediated IMP-type carbapenemases, 17 varieties of which are currently known, found in enteric Gram-negative organisms, Pseudomonas and Acinetobacter species.
VIM (Verona integron-encoded metallo-β-lactamase): A second growing family of carbapenemases, the VIM family, VIM enzymes occur mostly in P. aeruginosa, also P. putidaand, very rarely, Enterobacteriaceae.
Both IMP and VIM hydrolyse all β-lactams except monobactams, and evade all β-lactam inhibitors.
OXA (oxacillinase) group of β-lactamases (Class D): The OXA group of β-lactamases occur mainly in Acinetobacter species and are divided into two clusters.
OXA carbapenemases hydrolyse carbapenems very slowly in vitro, and the high MICs seen for some Acinetobacter hosts (>64 mg/L) may reflect secondary mechanisms.
They are sometimes augmented in clinical isolates by additional resistance mechanisms, such as impermeability or efflux.
OXA carbapenemases also tend to have a reduced hydrolytic efficiency towards penicillins and cephalosporins.
KPC (K. pneumoniae carbapenemase) (Class A): A few class A enzymes, most noted the plasmid-mediated KPC enzymes, are effective carbapenemases as well.
Ten variants, KPC-2 through KPC-11 are known, and they are distinguished by one or two amino-acid substitutions The class A Klebsiella pneumoniae carbapenemase (KPC) is currently the most common carbapenemase.
CMY (Class C): The first class C carbapenemase was described in 2006 and was isolated from a virulent strain of Enterobacter aerogenes.
It is carried on a plasmid, pYMG-1, and is therefore transmissible to other bacterial strains.
Pine nuts, coming from several varieties of Pine trees, are abundant in south-western North America, but also in similar climates elsewhere, most notably the Mediterranean.
They were an important food source for Native Americans.
The high-fat, high-protein, ivory-colored nuts are actually inside the Pine cone.
Pine nut may commonly induce symptoms of food allergy in sensitised individuals.
Forms of high molecular weight insulin-like growth factor-II ('Big IGF-2' and 'Big-big IGF-2') represent partially processed pro-IGF-2 and have a molecular weight of 10-18 kD in contrast to mature IGF-2, which has a molecular weight of 7.5 kD. The 10 and 12 kD high molecular weight forms are known as 'Big-IGF-2' and the 15 and 18 kDa forms are known as 'big big-IGF-2'.
Increased amounts of high molecular weight IGF-2 forms is present in patients with various forms of tumor-related hypoglycemia, including extrapancreatic tumor hypoglycemia (EPTH) and non-islet cell tumor hypoglycemia (NICTH).
NICTH is characteristic of Doege-Potter syndrome (DPS), a paraneoplastic syndrome in which hypoglycemia is associated with the presence of one or more non-islet tumors in the pleural cavity.
The causes and contributing risk factors for the patient's current nutritional diagnosis.
Lead is toxic to many organs and tissues including the heart, bones, intestines, kidneys, and reproductive and nervous systems.
It interferes with the development of the nervous system and is particularly toxic to children, causing potentially permanent learning and behavior disorders.
Symptoms include abdominal pain, confusion, headache, anemia, irritability, and in severe cases seizures, coma, and death.
Routes of exposure include contaminated air, water, soil, food, and consumer products.
Occupational exposure is a common cause of lead poisoning in adults.
The National Institute of Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH) estimates that more than 3 million workers in the United States are potentially exposed to lead in the workplace.
One of the largest threats to children is lead paint that exists in many older homes.
Blood lead levels screen for lead poisoning and monitor treatment as well.
The Centers for Disease Control (US) has set the standard elevated blood lead level for adults to be 10 µg/dl of the whole blood.
For children the number is set much lower at 5 µg/dl of blood as of 2012 down from a previous 10 µg/dl.
The major treatments are removal of the source of lead and chelation therapy.
Both capillary and venous blood specimens are used for lead testing and they have different reference ranges, so it is important to distinguish the specimen type for both clinical and public health reporting.
Capillary samples are more likely to be contaminated by environmental residues present on the skin.
Venous blood collected using evacuated tubes and needles certified as lead-free is preferred (NCCLS.2001), however obtaining venous samples from pediatric patients may be be difficult, capillary blood from a finger puncture may be used for screening purposes.
If an elevated lead level is detected in capillary blood, a second test on a venous sample is necessary.
Chikungunya virus (CHIKV) belongs to the mosquito-borne alphavirus genus, in the family Togaviridae, and was first observed in epidemic form in Africa.
Serologically, CHIKV belongs to the Semliki Forest (SF) subgroup of alphaviruses.
Infection in humans is characterized by rash, high fever and, its hallmark feature, severe arthritis that can persist for years.
CHIKV is a small, spherical, enveloped, positive-strand RNA virus.
The virion consists of an envelope and a nucleocapsid.
The envelope glycoproteins of alphaviruses are the distinguishing factors for testing.
The CHIKV genome encodes for two polyproteins; the non-structural polyprotein consisting of four proteins (nsP1, nsP2, nsP3 and nsP4) and the structural polyprotein consisting of five proteins (Capsid, E3, E2, 6K and E1).
CHIKV has spikes on the virion surface that are each formed by three E1-E2 heterodimers, where the E1 glycoproteins mediate fusion and E2 glycoproteins interact with the host receptor.
CHIKV can be detected between the first and fourth day of infection (the acute phase) using PCR or virus cultivation, and virus-specific IgM and IgG antibodies can be detected during the 8th to the 10th day of infection.
Antibody investigation should be performed using serum samples from the acute and convalescent stage.
Different types of hard cheese.
Cheese is one of the most important allergens involved in food allergy in adults.
Deletions on the long arm of chromosome Y are known to be associated with male infertility, frequently due to non-obstructive idiopathic azoospermia or severe oligozoospermia.
Tiepolo and Zuffardi (Human Genetics, v34,1976) reported that 0.5% of idiopathic sub infertile individuals were found to carry cytogenetically visible deletions on the Yqll region.
They called this region the 'azoospermia factor (AZF)'.
To date, three primary AZF regions have been named: AZFa, AZFb, and AZFc.
The AZFa region is found within Yq11.21, AZFb and AZFc more distally within Yq11.22, 23.
Molecular techniques, including multiplex PCR and Y-chromosome locus-specific probes, may used to detect small non-overlapping interstitial deletions within the AZFa, AZFb, and AZFc regions.
3-Hydroxyphenazepam is an active metabolite of phenazepam and the benzodiazepine prodrug cinazepam.
It has hypnotic, sedative, and anticonvulsant properties.
Colorless ("sand grain") granules, usually not clinically significant.
Koontz A. Clinical Significance of Formed Elements in Urine.
A histamine congener, it competitively inhibits histamine binding to H2 receptors.
Cimetidine has a range of pharmacological actions.
It inhibits gastric acid secretion, as well as pepsin and gastrin output.
It also blocks the activity of cytochrome P-450.
A preparation of chicle, sometimes mixed with other plastic substances, sweetened and flavored.
It is masticated usually for pleasure as a candy substitute but it sometimes acts as a vehicle for the administration of medication.
Distance between Nasion and Menton
A potent, non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitor used in combination with nucleoside analogues for treatment of HIV infection and AIDS.
The SF3B1 gene (splicing factor 3b subunit 1) is located on chromosome 2q33.1.
This gene encodes subunit 1 of the splicing factor 3b protein complex.
Splicing factor 3b, together with splicing factor 3a and a 12S RNA unit, forms the U2 small nuclear ribonucleoproteins complex (U2 snRNP).
The splicing factor 3b/3a complex binds pre-mRNA upstream of the intron's branch site in a sequence independent manner and may anchor the U2 snRNP to the pre-mRNA.
Splicing factor 3b is also a component of the minor U12-type spliceosome.
The carboxy-terminal two-thirds of subunit 1 have 22 non-identical, tandem HEAT repeats that form rod-like, helical structures.
Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms.
5' Nucleotidase test is specific for cholestasis or damage to the intra or extrahepatic biliary system, and in some laboratories, is used as a substitute for GGT for ascertaining whether an elevated ALP is of biliary or extra-biliary origin.
A benzothiadiazine derivative that is a peripheral vasodilator used for hypertensive emergencies.
It lacks diuretic effect, apparently because it lacks a sulfonamide group.
Distance from Soft tissue Glabella to Subnasale.
A phenothiazine that is used in the treatment of PSYCHOSES.
Metastasis that has only occurred in the subcapsular region of the lymph node implies early invasion, while metastasis in the intramedullary region of the lymph node implies later stages of invasion.
Dopamine beta-hydroxylase (DBH) is an enzyme that converts dopamine to norepinephrine.
Cladosporium cladosporioides is a fungal plant pathogen that affects wheat.
It is the source of the series of chemical compounds known as calphostins.
These food mites are tiny and barely visible, varying from 0.3 to 0.6 mm.
Using strong magnification, one can notice that the body has no incision between the 2nd and the 3rd leg pairs.
The males possess no suction pads; in the females, a short copulation pipe is visible.
For both sexes, the body bristles are very long and feathery.
Unlike Gylcyphagus domesticus, these mites have an inserted, elongated, and pointed scale on the end segment of the legs.
Nevertheless, the scale is difficult to recognise if it is not spread out.
Their eggs are quite large, compared with the size of the adult.
Storage mite allergy was initially reported to involve mainly farmers and grain workers.
As these Storage mites are found in barns and grain stores, they are important causes of occupational respiratory diseases in farmers.
In Europe, L. destructor has been reported to be a major source of mite allergy in rural and urban environments.
The PROC gene (protein C, inactivator of coagulation factors Va and VIIIa) is located on chromosome 2 at position q14.3.
This gene encodes a vitamin K-dependent plasma glycoprotein.
The encoded protein is cleaved to its activated form by the thrombin-thrombomodulin complex.
This activated form contains a serine protease domain and functions in degradation of the activated forms of coagulation factors V and VIII.
Mutations in this gene have been associated with thrombophilia due to protein C deficiency, neonatal purpura fulminans, and recurrent venous thrombosis.
Antithrombin III binds to thrombin forming a 1:1 complex
A non-essential amino acid found primarily in gelatin and silk fibroin.
It also inhibits neurotransmitters.
A component of the CLASSICAL COMPLEMENT PATHWAY.
C2 is cleaved by activated COMPLEMENT C1S into COMPLEMENT C2B and COMPLEMENT C2A. C2a, the COOH-terminal fragment containing a SERINE PROTEASE, combines with COMPLEMENT C4B to form C4b2a (CLASSICAL PATHWAY C3 CONVERTASE) and subsequent C4b2a3b (CLASSICAL PATHWAY C5 CONVERTASE).
The type species of LYSSAVIRUS causing rabies in humans and other animals.
Transmission is mostly by animal bites through saliva.
The virus is neurotropic multiplying in neurons and myotubes of vertebrates.
An optical isomer of quinine, extracted from the bark of the Cinchona tree and similar plant species.
This alkaloid dampens the excitability of cardiac and skeletal muscles by blocking sodium and potassium currents across cellular membranes.
It prolongs cellular action potential, and decreases automaticity.
Quinidine also blocks muscarinic and alpha-adrenergic neurotransmission.
6-Acetylcodeine is used to differentiate illicit Heroine from pharmaceutical Opiates.
The TCOF1 gene (Treacher Collins-Franceschetti syndrome 1) is located on chromosome 5q32.
This gene encodes a nucleolar protein with a LIS1 homology domain.
The protein is involved in ribosomal DNA gene transcription through its interaction with upstream binding factor (UBF).
Mutations in this gene have been associated with Treacher Collins syndrome, a disorder which includes abnormal craniofacial development.
Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
Two equine adenovirus (EAdV) subtypes have been identified: equine adenovirus type 1 (EAdV-1) and equine adenovirus type 2 (EAdV-2).
EAdV-1 is widespread in horses and mainly associated with mild upper respiratory tract infections.
Severe cases can lead to acute upper respiratory disease, conjunctivitis, and bronchopneumonia.
EAdV-2 is commonly associated with gastrointestinal infections in horses.
A TETRACYCLINE analog having a 7-chloro and a 6-methyl.
Because it is excreted more slowly than TETRACYCLINE, it maintains effective blood levels for longer periods of time.
Hydrazine is an inorganic chemical compound with the formula N2H4.
It is a colorless liquid with an ammonia-like odor and is derived from the same industrial chemistry processes that manufacture ammonia.
However, hydrazine has physical properties that are more similar to those of water.
Whole-genome sequencing (WGS) is analysis of a patient's entire genome to detect and identify genomic variants, such as single nucleotide variants (SNVs), small DNA insertions or deletions (indels), copy number variants (CNVs), or other structural variants (SVs).
WGS and whole-exome sequencing (WES) are performed to identify the cause of heritable diseases and for various other applications, including population genetics, cancer studies.
Fungi related to allergies are commonly found in dwelling environments.
The predominant fungi Cladosporium, Penicillium, Aspergillus, Alternaria, Wallemia and Rhodotorula live mainly in indoor air, house dust (HD), futons, clothes and contaminated building materials.
See Aspergillus fumigatus and Aspergillus niger.
The Mandarin is a small, deep-orange-colored Orange.
The skin is loose and easily peeled.
The Mandarin Orange is considered a native of southeastern Asia and the Philippines.
It is most abundantly grown in Japan, southern China, India, and the East Indies.
These fruits have never been as popular in Western countries as they are in the Orient.
For commercial exploitation, Mandarins have several disadvantages, including that, unlike the Orange, the fruit does not ship well.
But increasing cultivation in non-Eastern tropical areas has led to increasing availability.
Anecdotal evidence suggests that Mandarin may occasionally induce symptoms of food allergy in sensitised individuals; however, few studies have been reported to date.
Clinical presentation of citrus fruit allergy, reported mostly for Orange, is heterogeneous, varing from mild oral allergy syndrome to severe anaphylaxis.
Peptoniphilus species, previously classified as Peptostreptococcus, are Gram positive anaerobic bacteria.
Peptoniphilus species have been identified as pathogens in various types of infections including chronic wounds such as those related to diabetes, pressure ulcers, bone and joint infections, sinus infections, and genitourinary infections.
Dry body weight is the body weight of a hemodialysis patient post-dialysis, when the blood pressure is within normal limits without the use of antihypertensive medication.
In patients with renal failure, decline in kidney function leads to increased total body sodium, which causes an increase in extracellular fluid volume (ECV) and hypertension.
During dialysis, excess sodium and fluid is removed, with a consequent decrease in blood pressure.
Recommended values for blood pressure are pre-dialysis pressure of <140/90 and post-dialysis pressure of <130/85, which indicate adequate volume control.
Dry body weight can help monitor ECV but is difficult to determine since it is not a constant value and may vary between hemodialysis sessions.
Other methods for measuring ECV include central venous pressure, examination of the external jugular vein, assessment of edema, and the cardiothoracic index.
Coagulation factor inhibitors can develop in patients with coagulation factor deficiencies after receiving factor therapy as well as in response to various antibiotics, chemotherapy and other conditions such as autoimmune disorders.
Isolated Factor VII inhibitors are rare but have been associated with cancer, aplastic anemia, and antiphospholipid antibodies.
Patients with less than 1% Factor VII activity may present with severe bleeding, including joint, gastrointestinal, or intracranial bleeding, or severe menorrhagia.
The superior angle formed by the long axis of the maxillary central incisor and the Nasion-Subspinale (A point) line
Threonine, one of the 20 naturally occuring amino acids, is nutritionally essential in humans because they cannot synthesze it.
Threonine contains two chiral centers, so there are four possible stereoisomers of threonine, or two possible diastereomers of L-threonine.
However, the name L-threonine is used for one single enantiomer, (2 S ,3 R)-2-amino-3-hydroxybutanoic acid.
The second diastereomer (2 S ,3 S), which is rarely present in nature, is called L-allo-threonine.
The threonine side chain can undergo O-linked glycosylation.
Threonine can become phosphorylated through the action of a threonine kinase.
In its phosphorylated form, it is referred to as phosphothreonine.
Foods high in threonine are cottage cheese, poultry, fish, meat, lentils, and sesame seeds.
Threonine is a secondary marker for citrullinemia type II, an inherited disorder that causes ammonia and other toxic products to accumulate in the blood.
Betula populifolia (Gray Birch) is a deciduous tree native to North America.
It ranges from southeastern Ontario east to Nova Scotia, and south to Pennsylvania and New Jersey, with disjunct populations in Indiana, Virginia, and North Carolina.
It prefers poor, dry upland soils, but is also found in moist mixed woodlands.
Short-lived, it is a common pioneer species on abandoned fields and burned areas.
F. moniliforme is widely distributed on numerous grasses and other plants and is a common soil fungus.
It often causes plant diseases and is a major parasite of rice, sugar cane, and sorghum and is especially common on maize grains.
It occurs regularly on banana roots and other fruits and vegetables, e.g. tomato and watermelon.
Anecdotal evidence suggests that Fusarium proliferatum may induce symptoms of asthma, allergic rhinitis and/or hypersensitivity pneumonitis in sensitised individuals.
The serum-pericardial effusion albumin gradient is measured to determine the differential diagnosis of large pericardial effusions and to discriminate between exudate and transudate fluid.
The biparietal diameter (BPD) measurement, using outer-to-outer caliper positioning, is dependent on the head shape of the fetus (using the cephalic index).
Due to inaccuracies that can occur with this measurement, the BPD is no longer routinely used for gestational age estimation or determining the appropriateness of fetal size later in pregnancy.
Head circumference is the preferred method for measuring fetal head size.
Ribonuclease P, RNase P) is a type of ribonuclease which cleaves RNA.
RNase P is unique from other RNases in that it is a ribozyme - a ribonucleic acid that acts as a catalyst in the same way that a protein based enzyme would.
Its function is to cleave off an extra, or precursor, sequence of RNA on tRNA molecules.
Further, RNase P is one of two known multiple turnover ribozymes in nature (the other being the ribosome), the discovery of which earned Sidney Altman and Thomas Cech the Nobel Prize in Chemistry in 1989: in the 1970s, Altman discovered the existence of precursor tRNA with flanking sequences and was the first to characterize RNase P and its activity in processing of the 5' leader sequence of precursor tRNA.
Recent findings also reveal that RNase P has a new function.
It has been shown that human nuclear RNase P is required for the normal and efficient transcription of various small noncoding RNAs, such as tRNA, 5S rRNA, SRP RNA and U6 snRNA genes., which are transcribed by RNA polymerase III, one of three major nuclear RNA polymerases in human cells.
The activated partial thromboplastin time (aPTT) is used to evaluate the functionality of the intrinsic pathway of coagulation.
The aPTT can only detect deficiencies of factors VIII, IX, XI, and XII and only if the deficiency is 20-40% of normal.
The aPTT clotting time can vary depending upon a number of factors including its activator composition, the platelet phospholipid substitute, the calcium chloride concentration, and incubation time.
All of these various properties also affect how sensitive the aPTT is at detecting clotting factor deficiencies, either functional or quantitative.
Some aPTT reagents have been found to be more sensitive in being able to detect most of the factor VIII, IX, and XI deficiencies.
An aPTT assay is run using patient plasma that is diluted with pooled normal plasma to determine if there is a factor deficiency or an inhibitor.
The detection limits of factor deficient plasma can be obtained from the reagent manufacturer for specific instruments.
It is also possible to develop a detection limit by testing at least 20 factor deficient specimens that have activities that range from 10 to 50% for each of the intrinsic coagulation factors.
The Atlantic mackerel (Scomber scombrus), is a pelagic schooling species of mackerel found on both sides of the North Atlantic Ocean.
The species is also called Boston mackerel, or just mackerel.
Retinol and retinyl esters are the two most abundant forms of retinoid present in the diet.
Retinyl esters are formed when a fatty acyl group is esterified to the hydroxyl terminus of retinol, a storage form of retinol.
The most abundant retinyl esters in the body are linoleic acid, oleic acid, palmitic acid, and stearic acid.
In biochemistry, beta-alanine is the only naturally occurring beta amino acid, which are amino acids in which the amino group is at the -position from the carboxylate group (i.e., two atoms away).
The IUPAC name for beta-alanine would be 3-aminopropionic acid.
Unlike its normal counterpart, L-alanine, beta-alanine has no chiral center.
beta-alanine is not used in the biosynthesis of any major proteins or enzymes.
It is formed in vivo by the degradation of dihydrouracil and carnosine.
It is a component of the naturally occurring peptides carnosine and anserine and also of pantothenic acid (Vitamin B-5) which itself is a component of coenzyme A. Under normal conditions, beta-alanine is metabolized into acetic acid.
Tobacco smoking status represents a person's smoking behavior.
Smoking statuses can be classified as current every day smoker, current some day smoker, former smoker, never smoker, smoker - current status unknown, unknown if ever smoked, current heavy tobacco smoker, and current light tobacco smoker.
These statuses represent CDC's preferred (sometimes required) responses for recording smoking status.
The chart abstraction flag notes an individual's status to request or review a member chart, but does not address the chart's availability.
It is intended to answer the question, "Are you able to request (or review) charts for this person?
A 'Yes' answer indicates that there are no contractual or other restrictions that would prevent an individual from requesting any chart for this member.
Matricaria recutita or German chamomile, also spelled camomile, is an annual plant of the composite family Asteraceae.
Synonyms are: Chamomilla chamomilla, Chamomilla recutita (correct name according to the Flora Europaea), Matricaria chamomilla, and Matricaria suaveolens.
PB-22 3-carboxyindole is a metabolite of PB-22 hydroxyquinolines and PB-22 (QUPIC or 1-pentyl-1H-indole-3-carboxylic acid 8-quinolinyl ester), a synthetic cannabinoid that binds to the cannabinoid CB1 and CB2 receptors.
PB-22 is an analog of JWH 018, another potent synthetic cannabinoid.
Synthetic cannabinoids interact with the same brain receptors as THC (the active drug present in marijuana) and have been demonstrated to produce similar effects.
The drug is typically sprayed on botanical material and smoked, although it can be ingested in liquid or powder form.
Products containing this drug are sold under a wide variety of names including (but not limited to)
Spice, Potpourri, Smoke, K2, Zombie, Kush, and Cloud 10.
ATPase, Na+/K+ transporting, alpha 2 (+) polypeptide, also known as ATP1A2, is a protein which in humans is encoded by the ATP1A2 gene.
Mutations in the ATP1A2 gene has been implicated in the familial form of alternating hemiplegia of childhood.
Proinsulin is a protein encoded by the INS gene and a precursor to insulin.
Proinsulin is a single chain of amino acids that is cleaved into three peptides.
The three peptides include the A chain, B chain, and C-peptide.
When the A and B chains are joined by a disulfide bond they become the hormone insulin.
Insulin binds to the insulin receptors (INSR) on cells in the body to stimulate the uptake of glucose.
In addition to decreasing the level of glucose in the blood, insulin also increases the permeability of cells to amino and fatty acids, and accelerates glycolysis and glycogen synthesis in the liver.
Lamivudine is a Nucleoside Reverse Transcriptase Inhibitor(NRTI) antiretroviral drug used in the treatment of HIV.
Drug resistance reports assist with treatment decisions.
Lilium longiflorum, often called the Easter lily or November lily, is a plant native to the Ryukyu Islands (Japan) and Taiwan.
Length of time in years, months, weeks or days, that a patient stayed outside of the United States.
Distance from the H-Line (line from Soft Tissue Pogonion to Labrale Superius) to the Superior Labial Sulcus (subnasale)
The TSC gene (tuberous sclerosis 1) gene is located on chromosome 9q34.
This gene encodes a growth inhibitory protein thought to play a role in the stabilization of tuberin.
Mutations in this gene have been associated with tuberous sclerosis.
Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants.
A compound formed in the liver from ammonia produced by the deamination of amino acids.
It is the principal end product of protein catabolism and constitutes about one half of the total urinary solids.
A cardioselective beta-adrenergic antagonist with little effect on the bronchial receptors.
The drug has stabilizing and quinidine-like effects on cardiac rhythm as well as weak inherent sympathomimetic action.
Pepsin is the principal proteolytic enzyme of vertebrate gastric juice.
Pepsin's inactive precursor form, pepsinogen, is produced in stomach mucosa.
The minor pepsins are designated "B", "C", and "D".
"A" is the major component.
Porcine sapelovirus (PSV) is a non-enveloped single-stranded RNA virus with a single serotype PSV-1.
The only known hosts are domestic swine and wild boar.
Transmission of PSV is through the fecal-oral route and no humans are known to have been infected.
Infections can be asymptomatic but can also lead to neurological disorders, diarrhea, pneumonia, stillbirth, mummified fetus, embryonic death and infertility.
PSV has been identified in healthy swine in Brazil, Australia, Spain, Italy and the United States.
Symptomatic infection of PSV has been reported in China, South Korea and the United Kingdom.
Tests that identify PSV include culture, virus neutralization and reverse transcript polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR).
RT-PCR is used to distinguish between PSV, Porcine teschovirus (PTV) and Enterovirus G (EV-G).PSV can be inactivated with sodium chlorite and 70% ethanol.
There is no treatment or vaccine for PSV.
Rift Valley Fever (RVF) is a viral zoonosis (affects primarily domestic livestock, but can be passed to humans) causing fever.
It is spread by the bite of infected mosquitoes.
The disease is caused by the RVF virus, a member of the genus Phlebovirus (family Bunyaviridae).
The disease was first reported among livestock in Kenya around 1915, but the virus was not isolated until 1931.
RVF outbreaks occur across sub-Saharan Africa, with outbreaks occurring elsewhere infrequently (but sometimes severely - in Egypt in 1977 -78, several million people were infected and thousands died during a violent epidemic; in September 2000 an outbreak was confirmed in Saudi Arabia and Yemen).
In humans the virus can cause several different syndromes.
Usually sufferers have either no symptoms or only a mild illness with fever, headache, myalgia and liver abnormalities.
The PCSK9 gene (proprotein convertase subtilisin/kexin type 9) is located on chromosome 1p32.3.
This gene encodes a member of the subtilisin-like proprotein convertase family, which includes proteases that process protein and peptide precursors trafficking through regulated or constitutive branches of the secretory pathway.
The encoded protein undergoes an autocatalytic processing event with its prosegment in the ER and is constitutively secreted as an inactive protease into the extracellular matrix and trans-Golgi network.
It is expressed in liver, intestine and kidney tissues and escorts specific receptors for lysosomal degradation.
It plays a role in cholesterol and fatty acid metabolism.
Mutations in this gene have been associated with autosomal dominant familial hypercholesterolemia.
Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants.
Risk of Prostate Cancer.
Percent of free PSA has been reported to be of value for evaluation of men with total PSA value between 4 and 10 ng/mL.
The probability of finding prostate cancer on a needle biopsy is given and based on the % PSA ratio and the patient's age.
Conalbumin is a glycoprotein which is present in Egg white, Egg yolk, and plasma.
Only partial cross-reactivity has been demonstrated between Chicken serum albumin and Conalbumin.
Distance from the incisal edge of the mandibular central incisor perpendicular to the A-Pogonion line
One of the centrally acting MUSCARINIC ANTAGONISTS used for treatment of PARKINSONIAN DISORDERS and drug-induced extrapyramidal movement disorders and as an antispasmodic.
Antigen-experienced T cells have been divided into CD62L+ CCR7+ central memory (TCM) and CD62L- CCR7- effector memory (TEM) cells.
High molecular wt fragment of ACTH; high levels found in ectopic tumor syndrome and certain malignancies; low levels in Addisons disease.
2,4,6-Trichlorophenol, also known as TCP, phenaclor, Dowicide 2S, Dowcide 2S, omal, is a chlorinated phenol that has been used as a fungicide, herbicide, insecticide, antiseptic, defoliant, and glue preservative.
It is a yellow solid with a strong, sweet odour.
It decomposes on heating to produce toxic and corrosive fumes including hydrogen chloride and chlorine.
It is carcinogenic in animals, causing lymphomas, leukemia, and liver cancer via oral exposure.
It is classified as Group B2 (probable human carcinogen) by the United States Environmental Protection Agency.
The technical grade of this substance may contain polychlorinated dibenzodioxins (PCDDs), polychlorinated dibenzofurans (PCDFs), and other contaminants.
The appearance of a fernlike pattern in a dried specimen of cervical mucus or vaginal fluid, an indication of the presence of estrogen.
Dorland's Medical Dictionary for Health Consumers.
© 2007 by Saunders, an imprint of Elsevier, Inc.
Bactericidal/permeability increasing protein (BPI) is a 456 residue (~50kDa) protein which is part of the innate immune system.
Pinus radiata (family Pinaceae) is known in English as Monterey Pine or the Insignis Pine in some parts of the world (mainly in the USA, Canada and the British Isles), and Radiata Pine in others (primarily Australia and New Zealand).
Haemophilus species are gram-negative coccobacilli that grow more readily in a CO2-enhanced environment and cause otitis media, sinusitis, tracheobronchitis, pneumonia, cellulitis, epiglottitis, and chancroid.
The encapsulated type b H influenza is the most virulent type of haemophilus and can penetrate the capillaries, after which it travels to the meninges and can lead to meningitis in children under two.
A vaccination against type b H influenza has been developed and proven efffective.
Unencapsulated types of haemophilus are less virulent than type b H influenza and are unable to penetrate the capillaries.
An essential branched-chain amino acid important for hemoglobin formation.
Three different breakpoint cluster regions (BCR1, BCR2, BCR3) on chromosome 15 leads to the formation of various types of PML-RARA fusion transcripts.
BCR1 and BCR3 are most frequently involved in acute promyelocytic leukemia (APL), and BCR2 leads to several different products due to different breakpoints within this cluster.
The amount of breast milk consumed.
Hemoglobin A2 is a normal variant of hemoglobin A.
It consists of two alpha and two delta chains and is found in small quantity in normal human blood.
The Risk Evaluation and Mitigation Strategies (REMS) Medication Guide Section will describe the section of the REMS Structured Product Labeling (SPL) file that describes where to locate the medication guide information.
HTLV-I and HTLV-II are human retroviruses associated with adult T-cell leukemias and lymphomas and HTLV-associated myelopathy.
Patients infected with HTLV-I may remain asymptomatic for up to 20 years, with fewer than 5% of infected patients developing myelopathies or adult T-cell leukemia.
Adult T-cell leukemia is associated with skin infiltrates and hypercalcemia.
HTLV-I virus is tropic for T4 lymphocytes and is transmitted by sexual contact, blood products, injection drug abuse, maternal-fetal transmission, and by breast milk.
HTLV-II has some association with neoplasia involving CD8 T lymphocytes.
Information from Jacobs and DeMott Laboratory Test Handbook, 5th edition, DS Jacobs, WR DeMott and DK Oxley, 2001.
An exchange transfusion is a medical treatment in which apheresis is used to remove one person's red blood cells or platelets and replace them with transfused blood products.
Exchange transfusion is used in the treatment of a number of diseases, including: Sickle cell disease, Thrombotic Thrombocytopenic purpura (TTP), Hemolytic disease of the newborn.
A semi-synthetic antibiotic related to penicillin.
2-Methylpentane is a branched-chain alkane with the molecular formula C6H14.
It is a structural isomer of hexane composed of a methyl group bonded to the second carbon atom in a pentane chain.
It is of similar structure to one of its isomers, 3-methylpentane, which has the methyl group located on the third carbon of the pentane chain.
Cyclosporine (Brand names Neoral, Restasis, Sandimmune, Gengraf) is a cyclic undecapeptide of fungal origin and a potent calcineurin inhibitor immunosuppressive agent.
The introduction of cyclosporine in human organ transplantation substantially improved patient and graft survival in patients receiving heart, kidney, liver, pancreas, lung or bone marrow transplants.
Cyclosporine was the first drug to specifically and reversibly inhibit the activation and proliferation of lymphocytes.
The main mechanism through which cyclosporine exerts its immunosuppressive effect is the inhibition of T cell activation and proliferation.
Monitoring and concentration-controlled dosing is required to maintain patient drug levels within a narrow therapeutic window; low levels could cause transplant rejection and high levels may cause nephrotoxicity.
The PAX8/PPARG (paired box 8/peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma) gene rearrangement is created by a translocation between chromosome arms 2q and 3p where the entire coding region of the PPARG transcription factor gene is fused with the first 8 to 10 exons of the PAX8 gene.
Translocations of the PAX8/PPARG genes play a role in the pathogenesis of some follicular thyroid carcinomas and follicular-variant papillary thyroid carcinoma.
Several testing methods are used to detect the rearrangement, including fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH), immunohistochemistry (IHC), and reverse-transcription PCR (RT-PCR).
Mutations of the MBL2 gene can lead to mannose-binding lectin deficiency.
With decreased levels of mannose-binding lectin, patients are susceptible to recurrent infections.
However, researchers believe that a number of factors, including other genetic and environmental factors, are involved in the development of mannose-binding lectin deficiency.
The process in which the cell nucleus is thickened into a dense mass, which occurs when cells die.
Garlic (Allium sativum) is a perennial plant in the family Alliaceae and genus Allium, closely related to the onion, shallot, and leek.
It does not grow in the wild, and is thought to have arisen in cultivation, probably descended from the species Allium longicuspis, which grows wild in south-western Asia.
Garlic has been used throughout all of recorded history for both culinary and medicinal purposes.
The portion of the plant most often consumed is an underground storage structure called a head.
A head of garlic is composed of a dozen or more discrete cloves, each of which is a botanical bulb, an underground structure comprised of thickened leaf bases.
Each garlic clove may often be composed of just one leaf base, unlike onions, which almost always have multiple layers.
The above-ground portions of the garlic plant are also sometimes consumed, particularly while immature and tender.
Garlic has a powerful pungent or hot flavor when raw, which mellows considerably when it is cooked.
Epidermal allergen mix 70 (ex70, EP70) detects Guinea pig epithelium (E6), Rabbit epithelium (E82), Hamster epithelium (E84), Rat (E87), and Mouse (E88) IgE antibodies.
Testing for IgE antibodies may be used to help diagnose an allergic disease or the cause of an anaphylactic episode in a patient.
Enzyme and fluorescent-based assays, which were preceded by the RAST test (Radio-AllergoSorbent Test), are performed to detect allergen-specific IgE in the patient's serum.
The genus flavivirus (FV) is a group of single-stranded enveloped RNA viruses whose vectors are mainly ticks and mosquitoes.
They are dispersed worldwide and infect as many as 400 million people each year.
The FVs that cause neurotropic disease infect the brain and spinal cord leading to serious neurological disorders including meningitis, encephalitis and acute flaccid paralysis.
The neurotropic FV include West Nile Virus, Japanese encephalitis virus, tick-borne encephalitis virus, Usutu virus, Ilheus virus, and Zika virus.
The visceral disease causing FV can lead to liver failure, hemorrhagic syndromes and vascular damage and include yellow fever virus, dengue virus, and Zika virus.
Zika virus is the only FV that infects the human reproductive tract and can be sexually transmitted.
If Zika infects a pregnant mother, resulting placental damage can allow the virus to infect the fetus and cause placental insufficiency, microcephaly, congenital malformations, and fetal demise.
A glycine-rich, heat-labile serum glycoprotein that contains a component of the ALTERNATIVE COMPLEMENT C3 CONVERTASE (C3bBb).
Bb, a serine protease, is generated when factor B is cleaved by COMPLEMENT FACTOR D into Ba and Bb.
In anatomy of the digestive system, the colon is the part of the intestine from the caecum to the rectum.
Its primary purpose is to extract water from faeces.
In mammals, it consists of the ascending colon, transverse colon, the descending colon, the sigmoid colon, and the rectum.
The colon from cecum to the mid transverse colon is also known as the right colon.
The remainder is known as the left colon.
AnWj (Anton) is a high incidence red blood cell (RBC) antigen in the International Society of Blood Transfusion (ISBT) 901 series.
Anti-AnWj can cause severe hemolytic transfusion reactions.
Finding compatible units for transfusion to a patient that lacks the AnWj antigens or other high incidence antigens can be challenging.
Some countries maintain rare donor registries specifically for that purpose.
HPV type 39 has been associated with low grade cervical abnormalities, cancer precursors, and anogenital cancers.
The epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR; ErbB-1; HER1 in humans) is the cell-surface receptor for members of the epidermal growth factor family (EGF-family) of extracellular protein ligands.
The epidermal growth factor receptor is a member of the ErbB family of receptors, a subfamily of four closely related receptor tyrosine kinases: EGFR (ErbB-1), HER2/c-neu (ErbB-2), Her 3 (ErbB-3) and Her 4 (ErbB-4).
Mutations affecting EGFR expression or activity could result in cancer.
Tests for presence of mecA gene using genomic methods.
When present, the mecA gene confers resistance to cephalosporins or methicillin.
Parasitism is one version of symbiosis (living together), a phenomenon in which two organisms which are phylogenetically unrelated co-exist over a prolonged period of time, usually their entire life.
The requirement for a prolonged interaction precludes predatory or episodic interactions (such as a mosquito feeding on a host), which are usually not seen as symbiotic relationships.
Symbiosis encompasses commensalism (eating at the same table, wherein two organisms co-exist in the same space, and one organism benefits while neither harming nor helping the other), through mutualism (wherein both species benefit from the interaction) to parasitism, wherein one organism, usually physically smaller of the two (the parasite) benefits and the other (the host) is harmed.
(Various forms of social parasitism, kleptoparasitism, and cheating parasitism, as discussed below, are characterized by a less close association between parasite and host, however.
Rickettsia africae is a species of Rickettsia.
It can cause African tick-bite fever.
Found on mature B-cells.
Expressed at the time of Ig light chain gene rearrangement.
Associated with some B-cell ALL and most mature B-cell neoplasms.
Usually absent in plasma cell neoplasms
Angle observed in thromboelasography tracing that represents the acceleration of build up of fibrin and cross-linking.
The number of pacemaker wires attached to the ventricle of the heart.
The Hendra virus (HeV) is an emerging zoonotic infection in Queensland, Australia.
HeV is a Henipavirus that commonly infects Pteropid fruit bats, and more recently, horses, humans, and sporadically to date, dogs.
The mode of transmission is believed to be HeV particles in bat urine that are directly taken up by an intermediate host.
Transmission of HeV from horses to humans likely, occurs via spread of aerosolized infectious droplets during the final stages of the infection.
In humans, HeV infection initially presents with general respiratory symptoms, followed by fulminant encephalitis occurring many months later.
The case fatality rate in humans is approximately 60%.
The air curtain on an incubator is a specially-designed airflow to reduce temperature fluctuation and maintain the temperature inside the incubator when its access doors are opened.
Coinfections are distinct infections that are acquired through the same event.
Examples of coinfections are Anaplasmosis, Babesiosis, and Lyme disease, which are all transmitted by blacklegged ticks, and HIV and viral hepatitis B and C, which are all transmitted via direct exposure to the blood of an infected person.
Access pressure is the pressure in the outflow part of the circuit that is created by pulling blood from the patient into the circuit.
The pressure may be positive or negative depending on the type of access (venous or arterial).
The intron 1 and 22 inversion mutations in the F8 gene account for approximately 50% of mutations associated with severe hemophilia A (HA) cases in males.
These inversions are typically not identified in patients with mild or moderate HA.
When the inversion mutation is identified in a family, at-risk females may be tested to determine their hemophilia A carrier status.
From MRL Reference Laboratory Directory of Services: Determines qualitatively local humoral response to bacteria present in urine.
An EEG spike is a transient signal that is distinguishable from background activity, has a vertical peak and lasts 20-70 milliseconds.
The spike count is the number of spikes during a certain time period of EEG recording.
The SH3BP2 gene (SH3-domain binding protein 2) is located on chromosome 4p16.3.
The protein encoded by this gene has an N-terminal pleckstrin homology (PH) domain, an SH3-binding proline-rich region, and a C-terminal SH2 domain.
The protein binds to the SH3 domains of several proteins including the ABL1 and SYK protein tyrosine kinases, and functions as a cytoplasmic adaptor protein to positively regulate transcriptional activity in T, natural killer (NK), and basophilic cells.
Mutations in this gene result in cherubism.
Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
Uridine is a molecule (known as a nucleoside) that is formed when uracil is attached to a ribose ring (also known as a ribofuranose) via a β-N1-glycosidic bond.
If uracil is attached to a deoxyribose ring, it is known as a deoxyuridine.
Bellis perennis is a common European species of Daisy, often considered the archetypal species of that name.
Many related plants also share the name "Daisy", so to distinguish this species from other daisies it is sometimes qualified as Common Daisy, Lawn Daisy or occasionally English daisy.
It is native to western, central and northern Europe.
The species is widely naturalised in North America, and also in South America.
Cholesterol ester transfer protein (CETP), also called plasma lipid transfer protein, is a plasma protein that facilitates the transport of cholesteryl esters and triglycerides between the lipoproteins.
It collects triglycerides from very low-density (VLDL) or low-density lipoproteins (LDL) and exchanges them for cholesteryl esters from high-density lipoproteins (HDL), and vice versa.
Most of the time, however, CETP does a homoexchange, trading a triglyceride for a triglyceride or a cholesteryl ester for a cholesteryl ester.
Rare mutations leading to increased function of CETP have been linked to accelerated atherosclerosis.
In contrast, a polymorphism (I405V) of the CETP gene leading to lower serum levels has also been linked to exceptional longevity and to metabolic response to nutritional intervention.
However, this mutation also increases the prevalence of coronary heart disease in patients with hypertriglyceridemia.
The D442G mutation, which lowers CETP levels and increases HDL levels also increases coronary heart disease.
Elaidic acid, a major component of trans fat, increases CETP activity.
17 beta-Hydroxy-1 alpha-methyl-5 alpha-androstan-3-one.
A synthetic steroid with anabolic and androgenic activities.
A dosage compensation process occurring at an early embryonic stage in mammalian development whereby, at random, one X CHROMOSOME of the pair is repressed in the somatic cells of females.
Harmonia axyridis is a large coccinellid beetle originally native to eastern Asia, but which has been introduced to North America and Europe to control aphids and scale insects.
It is now common, well known and spreading in those regions.
It is commonly known as Asian lady beetle, or Japanese ladybug, in North America, and Harlequin ladybird in the United Kingdom (the latter name because it occurs in numerous color forms).
It is also known as the multicolored Asian lady beetle, and Halloween lady beetle
A psychoactive compound extracted from the resin of cannabis sativa (marihuana, hashish).
The isomer delta-9-tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) is considered the most active form, producing characteristic mood and perceptual changes associated with this compound.
Dronabinol is a synthetic form of delta-9-THC.
Norclozapine (desmethyl-clozapine),a major metabolite of clozapine, is pharmacologically active.
The cytochrome P450 isoenzyme 1A2 is primarily responsible for clozapine metabolism, but 2C, 2D6, 2E1 and 3A3/4 appear to play roles as well.
Agents which induce (e.g. cigarette smoke) or inhibit (e.g. theophylline, ciprofloxacin, fluvoxamine) CYP1A2 may increase or decrease, respectively, the metabolism of clozapine.
For example, the induction of metabolism caused by smoking means that smokers require up to double the dose of clozapine compared with non-smokers to achieve an equivalent plasma concentration.
Bacteroides melaninogenicus is a normal flora found in the upper respiratory tract.
Steroids may facilitate growth.
There will be high prevalence of Bacteroides melaninogenicus in the dental plaque of person with Down's syndrome.
This bacteria synthesizes collagenase in periodontal disease.
A protozoan parasite that causes vivax malaria (MALARIA, VIVAX).
This species is found almost everywhere malaria is endemic and is the only one that has a range extending into the temperate regions.
Amisulpride is a derivative of substituted benzamide and a second generation antipsychotic drug used to treat chronic schizophrenia.
Low doses of amisulpride promote neurotransmission by blocking presynaptic dopamine autoreceptors D2 and D3.
High doses of amisulpride reduce dopaminergic transmission by binding the postsynaptic dopamine D2 and D3 receptors more favorably in the limbic system.
Blocking the postsynaptic D2 and D3 receptors in the limbic system is highly prognostic of powerful antipsychotic activity.
Some data suggests that amisulpride is also effective in patients with dysthymia.
Side effects to amisulpride include a low incidence of cardiac toxicity, hypotension, sedation, anticholinergic symptoms, weight gain and extrapyramidal side effects.
Omega-3 polyunsaturated fatty acids are essential nutrients that include eicosapentaenoate (EPA), docosahexaenoate (DHA), and alpha-linolenic acid (ALA).
They are made up of 18-22 carbon atoms with the first double bond at the third carbon from the methyl end of the fatty acid structure.
EPA and DHA are found primarily in fatty fish including salmon, mackerel, tuna, herring, and sardines and in algae and krill.
ALA is present in plant oils including flaxseed, soybean, and canola oils.
There are many health benefits from maintaining a good level of omega-3 fatty acids including reduced inflammation, risk of heart disease, cancer, arthritis, and many more.
Deficiency in omega-3 fatty acids can result in fatigue, poor memory, dry skin, heart problems, mood swings, and poor circulation.
The GJB1 gene (gap junction protein, beta 1, 32kDa) is located on chromosome Xq13.1.
This gene encodes a member of the gap junction protein family.
The gap junction proteins are membrane-spanning proteins that assemble to form gap junction channels that facilitate the transfer of ions and small molecules between cells.
According to sequence similarities at the nucleotide and amino acid levels, the gap junction proteins are divided into two categories, alpha and beta.
Mutations in this gene cause X-linked Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease, an inherited peripheral neuropathy.
Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding the same protein have been found for this gene.
Saturated fats are fat molecules that have no double bonds between carbon molecules because they are saturated with hydrogen molecules.
Saturated fats are typically solid at room temperature.
Eating foods that contain saturated fats raises the level of cholesterol in your blood.
Many foods high in saturated fats can be high in calories too.
Saturated fats occur naturally in many foods, mainly from animal sources, including meat and dairy products.
Alpha-1-microglobulin (also called protein HC or A1M) is a 31-kD, single-chain plasma glycoprotein that may be involved in regulation of the inflammatory process.
The alpha-1-microglobulin/bikunin precursor gene (AMBP) codes for a precursor that splits into alpha-1-microglobulin, which belongs to the lipocalin superfamily, and bikunin.
A1M is normally present as a free form and as a complex with IgA in the blood, spinal fluid, and urine.
A1M inhibits neutrophil chemotaxis to endotoxin-activated serum.
Abnormal plasma/serum levels can be seen in liver or kidney disorders, and also in clinical conditions such as HIV and mood disorders.
Urinary A1M is used for the early detection and monitoring of kidney tubular disorders such as heavy metal intoxications, diabetic nephropathy, urinary outflow disorders or pyelonephritis).
Increased urinary excretion of α1-microglobulin in tubular proteinuria indicates reduced tubular reabsorption under normal glomerular filtration conditions.
This form of proteinuria is typical for chronic interstitial nephropathy and for acute and chronic tubular damage caused by endogenous and exogenous tubular toxins.
In renal failure, plasma levels of this microprotein increase from an early stage.
The resultant protein hyperfiltration in the residual nephron causes increased renal excretion as re-absorption capacity is exceeded.
α1-Microglobulin can be used as a marker to diagnose tubulo-interstitial nephropathy, for example, at an early stage, or rule it out with a high degree of certainty.
Acute and chronic forms of tubular insufficiency (all forms of primary and secondary Fanconi syndrome), heavy metal intoxication, nephrotoxic side-effects of pharmaceuticals, and rejection reactions following kidney transplantation can also be excluded.
A subcomponent of complement C1, composed of six copies of three polypeptide chains (A, B, and C), each encoded by a separate gene (C1QA; C1QB; C1QC).
This complex is arranged in nine subunits (six disulfide-linked dimers of A and B, and three disulfide-linked homodimers of C).
C1q has binding sites for antibodies (the heavy chain of IMMUNOGLOBULIN G or IMMUNOGLOBULIN M).
The interaction of C1q and immunoglobulin activates the two proenzymes COMPLEMENT C1R and COMPLEMENT C1S, thus initiating the cascade of COMPLEMENT ACTIVATION via the CLASSICAL COMPLEMENT PATHWAY.
16-Beta,18-dihydroxydehydroepiandrosterone is a steroid metabolite found in urine and may be elevated in newborns with 3-Beta Hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase deficiency.
Hematoporphyrin (Photodyn, Sensibion) is an endogenous porphyrin formed by the acid hydrolysis of hemoglobin.
Hematoporphyrin has been used as an antidepressant and antipsychotic since the 1920s.
Progesterone is a C-21 steroid hormone involved in the female menstrual cycle, pregnancy (supports gestation) and embryogenesis of humans and other species.
Progesterone belongs to a class of hormones called progestogens, and is the major naturally occurring human progestogen.
Progesterone should not be confused with progestins, which are synthetically produced progestogens.
Naphyrone, (O-2482, β-naphyrone, or naphthylpyrovalerone) is a drug derived from pyrovalerone that acts as a triple reuptake inhibitor, producing stimulant effects and has been reported as a novel cathinone designer drug or substance of abuse.
No safety or toxicity data is available on the drug.
The drug has been marketed under the name NRG-1, although only a minority of samples of substances sold under this name have been found to actually contain naphyrone.
Ethchlorvynol is a sedative and hypnotic drug.
It has been used to treat insomnia, but has been largely superseded and is only offered where an intolerance or allergy to other drugs exists.
Along with expected sedative effects of relaxation and drowsiness ethchlorvynol can cause skin rashes, faintness, restlessness and euphoria.
Early adjustment side effects can include nausea and vomiting, numbness, blurred vision, stomach pains and temporary dizziness.
An overdose is marked by confusion, fever, peripheral numbness and weakness, reduced coordination and muscle control, slurred speech, reduced heartbeat.
It is addictive and after prolonged use can cause withdrawal symptoms including convulsions, hallucinations and memory loss.
Due to these problems it is unusual for ethchlorvynol to be prescribed for periods exceeding seven days.
Ethchlorvynol is a member of the class of sedative-hypnotic tertiary carbinols such as methylparafynol.
It is not a barbituric acid derivative.
Grapefruit is one of the three principle members of the citrus family.
Its origin is not clear but it may have come about as a hybrid of the pomelo tree and sweet orange.
Tangelo is a hybrid product between grapefruit and orange, and has a less bitter taste than grapefruit.
Citrus fruits such as Grapefruit are among the most common causes of atopic dermatitis.
IgE antibodies to Grapefruit were detected in patients with atopic dermatitis, allergic rhinitis, and bronchial asthma.
The Sweet potato, belonging to the Morning glory family and not related to Potatoes, is native to the West Indies and Central America, although early reports place it in Indonesia and Philippines too.
It is a vine-like, perennial herb but is cultivated as an annual.
It is now grown in more than 100 countries in tropical, sub-tropical and temperate climates.
Anecdotal evidence suggests that Sweet potato can occasionally induce symptoms of food allergy in sensitised individuals; however, no studies have been reported to date.
Methylestrenolone is an anabolic steroid.
Isocyanate is the functional group of atoms N=C=O (1 nitrogen, 1 carbon, 1 oxygen), not to be confused with the cyanate functional group which is arranged as €"O€"CN.
Any organic compound which contains an isocyanate group may also be referred to in brief as an isocyanate.
An isocyanate may have more than one isocyanate group.
An isocyanate that has two isocyanate groups is known as a diisocyanate.
Diisocyanates are manufactured for reaction with polyols in the production of polyurethanes.
The posterior-inferior angle at the intersection of the Nasion-Pogonion line and the Frankfort Horizontal plane
Generally refers to the 17-beta-isomer of estradiol, an aromatized C18 steroid with hydroxyl group at 3-beta- and 17-beta-position.
Estradiol-17-beta is the most potent form of mammalian estrogenic steroids.
In humans, it is produced primarily by the cyclic ovaries and the placenta.
It is also produced by the adipose tissue of men and postmenopausal women.
The 17-alpha-isomer of estradiol binds weakly to estrogen receptors and exhibits little estrogenic activity in estrogen-responsive tissues.
Various isomers can be synthesized.
The PSEN2 gene (presenilin 2) is located on chromosome 1q42.13.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) patients with an inherited form of the disease carry mutations in the presenilin proteins (PSEN1 or PSEN2) or the amyloid precursor protein (APP).
These disease-linked mutations result in increased production of the longer form of amyloid-beta (main component of amyloid deposits found in AD brains).
Presenilins are postulated to regulate APP processing through their effects on gamma-secretase, an enzyme that cleaves APP.
Also, it is thought that the presenilins are involved in the cleavage of the Notch receptor such that, they either directly regulate gamma-secretase activity, or themselves act are protease enzymes.
Two alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms of PSEN2 have been identified.
Thyrotropin (TSH) has three codes in LOINC which differ by their detection limits.
The so-called first-generation TSH test was of low sensitivity, such that it was not useful for diagnosing or following hyperthyroidism.
It is no longer commercially available.
LOINC has a code with no specified detection limit.
3016-3 Thyrotropin in Serum or Plasma This code has existed since the first release of LOINC (in 1994).
Today you should avoid mapping to it except when you are mapping old TSH tests whose sensitivity cannot be ascertained.
2) The so-called 2nd generation TSH has a detection limit of <= .05 mIU/L and is now the routine TSH test in most settings.
11579-0 Thyrotropin in Serum or Plasma by Detection limit <= 0.05 mIU/L
It has the advantage over earlier tests in that it can detect both hyperthyroidism (reflected by an abnormally low TSH) and hypothyroidism, reflected by an abnormally high TSH. 3)
A third-generation TSH with a detection limit of <= .005 mIU/L also exists.
Labs usually add high sensitivity or ultra-sensitive or 3rd generation to its name.
It only offers advantage over the 2nd generation test in special cases.
Because of its limited measurement range at the high end, it can require more work (extra dilution steps) to quantify the value of very high TSH levels, but it is widely available.
11580-8 Thyrotropin in Serum or Plasma by high sensitivity Detection limit <= 0.005 mIU/L LOINC includes codes for TSH tests that are reported in mass concentrations and molar concentrations.
However, all current TSH test results are reported as mIU/L (or equivalent).
Except in very special circumstances, the only TSH variables to which you should map are the two immediately above.
Tetrahydrobiopterin (THB, BH4; Kuvan) or sapropterin, is a naturally occurring nutrient and essential cofactor of the three aromatic amino acid hydroxylase enzymes, used in the biosynthesis of the neurotransmitters serotonin (5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT)), melatonin, dopamine, norepinephrine (noradrenaline), epinephrine (adrenaline), and nitric oxide (NO).
Cottonwood is a deciduous tree native to eastern North America.
Pollen from the Cottonwood tree results in asthma, hayfever and allergic conjunctivitis.
Finegoldia magna, previously classified as Peptostreptococcus magnus, is a Gram positive anaerobic bacteria.
F magna has been identified as a pathogen in bone and joint infections, including septic arthritis, soft tissue abscesses and chronic wound infections, such as those related to diabetes, and prosthetic heart valve infectious endocarditis.
F magna has several virulence factors including protein L, PAB, SufA, and FAF.
Normaprotiline is the major metabolite of maprotiline.
A deoxyribonuclease (DNase, for short) is any enzyme that catalyzes the hydrolytic cleavage of phosphodiester linkages in the DNA backbone.
Deoxyribonucleases are thus one type of nuclease.
A wide variety of deoxyribonucleases are known, which differ in their substrate specificities, chemical mechanisms, and biological functions.
Ziprasidone, a benzisothiazoylpiperazine derivative, has combined dopamine and serotonin receptor antagonist activity, and is structurally related to tiospirone.
It is an atypical antipsychotic agent used to treat the symptoms of schizophrenia.
It is also used to treat episodes of mania, or mixed episodes (symptoms of mania and depression that happen together) in patients with bipolar disorder.
Ziprasidone is not approved by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for the treatment of behavior problems in older adults with dementia as taking antipsychotics such as ziprasidone increases the risk of stroke or death during treatment for those patients.
The second-most common type of cast, granular casts can result either from the breakdown of cellular casts or the inclusion of aggregates of plasma proteins (e.g., albumin) or immunoglobulin light chains.
Depending on the size of inclusions, they can be classified as fine or coarse, though the distinction has no diagnostic significance.
Their appearance is generally more cigar-shaped and of a higher refractive index than hyaline casts.
While most often indicative of chronic renal disease, these casts, as with hyaline casts, can also be seen for a short time following strenuous exercise.
Geotrichum candidum is a plant pathogen that causes sour rot on peach, nectarine, tomato and carrot.
It is also used in the production of the Nordic dairy product viili and is responsible for the velvety surface of the product.
It can also cause human disease.
HBV precore/core gene mutations have been shown to be responsible for the cessation in HBeAg production.
Selenium (Se) is a semimetal (metalloid) with four natural oxidation states, and it shares similar chemical and biological properties with sulfur.
It is an essential constituent of glutathione peroxidase.
Deficiencies in selenium have been linked to increased risk of cancer.
Recent studies have shown that selenium is essential for normal thyroid metabolism.
Se poisoning in swines is rare and usually occurs when the selenium supplement has been wrongly mixed into the feed.
Toxicity occurs with 5 mg/kg or more in the diet.
Symptoms include anorexia, hair loss, hoof loss followed by liver and kidney damage.
POL3RA gene encodes the largest core component (known as RP155) of RNA polymerase III, which synthesizes small RNAs such as 5S rRNA and tRNAs.
POL3RA protein is part of the active center of the polymerase.
The POL3RA protein plays a key role in sensing and reducing infection by intracellular bacteria and DNA viruses.
It also acts as a sensor involved in innate immune response.
The presence of antibodies directed against POL3RA are thought to be associated with systemic sclerosis (SSc), a connective tissue disease that affects the skin and internal organs.
Estrogen receptor refers to a group of receptors which are activated by the hormone 17β-estradiol (estrogen).
Two types of estrogen receptor exist: ER which is a member of the nuclear hormone family of intracellular receptors and the estrogen G protein coupled receptor GPR30 (GPER), which is a G-protein coupled receptor.
This article refers to the nuclear hormone receptor ER.
The main function of the estrogen receptor is as a DNA binding transcription factor which regulates gene expression.
However the estrogen receptor also has additional functions independent of DNA binding.
Estrogen receptors are over-expressed in around 70% of breast cancer cases, referred to as "ER-positive", and can be demonstrated in such tissues using immunohistochemistry.
Von Willebrand disease (vWD) is the most common hereditary coagulation abnormality described in humans, although it can also be acquired as a result of other medical conditions.
It arises from a qualitative or quantitative deficiency of von Willebrand factor (vWF), a multimeric protein that is required for platelet adhesion.
Other factors including ABO blood groups may also play a part in the severity of the condition.
FIP-infected kidney showing inflammatory responseFeline infectious peritonitis (FIP) is a fatal, incurable disease that affects cats.
It is believed by some to be caused by Feline Infectious Peritonitis Virus (FIPV), which is a mutation of Feline Enteric Coronavirus (FECV) - (Felin Coronavirus FeCoV).
Although there appears to be a connection between FIP and feline coronavirus, no clear cause and effect has yet been proven.
Experts do not always agree on the specifics of FIP.
However, the most common theory is that the normally benign FECV mutates into FIPV.
The mutated virus has the ability to invade and grow in certain white blood cells, namely macrophages.
The immune system's response causes an intense inflammatory reaction in the containing tissues.
This disease is generally fatal.
However its incidence rate is roughly 1 in 5000 for households with one or two cats.
Lysine is a basic amino acid that plays a major role in calcium absorption and the production of hormones, enzymes, and antibodies.
It is essential in humans, meaning the body cannot synthesize it and thus it must be obtained from the diet.
Lack of lysine (hypolysinemia) can result in niacin deficiency and cause pellagra.
Hyperlysinemia (elevated lysine levels) is an inherited condition characterized by elevated lysine blood levels, caused by the shortage of the enzyme that breaks down lysine.
Hyperlysinemia typically causes no health problems.
Dietary sources of lysine include eggs, meat, soy, beans and peas, cheese, and fish such as cod.
N,N-Dimethylpentylone, also known as dipentylone or beta-keto-dimethylbenzodioxolylpentanamine, emerged into the illicit drug supply <2 months of the international control of eutylone (September 2021).
The GYS2 gene (glycogen synthase 2 (liver)) is located on chromosome 12p12.2.
The protein encoded by this gene, liver glycogen synthase, catalyzes the rate-limiting step in the synthesis of glycogen - the transfer of a glucose molecule from UDP-glucose to a terminal branch of the glycogen molecule.
Mutations in this gene cause glycogen storage disease type 0 (GSD-0) - a rare type of early childhood fasting hypoglycemia with decreased liver glycogen content.
Matrix metalloproteinase-2 (MMP-2), a.k.a 72 kDa type IV collagenase or gelatinase A, is an enzyme that in humans is encoded by the MMP2 gene.
Proteins of the matrix metalloproteinase (MMP) family are involved in the breakdown of extracellular matrix in normal physiological processes, such as embryonic development, reproduction, and tissue remodeling, as well as in disease processes, such as arthritis and metastasis.
Mutations in the MMP2 gene are associated with Torg-Winchester syndrome, multicentric osteolysis and arthritis syndrome.
Neutrophil Oxidative Burst Test (or Chronic Granulomatous Disease (CGD) Test) is a measure of neutrophil oxidation is a useful assay in the diagnosis of chronic granulomatous disease and is also a useful means to determine the overall metabolic integrity of phagocytosing neutrophils.
The NADPH oxidase enzyme is missing in CGD.
From total blood, neutrophils can be purified and the NADPH oxidase activity can be measured with different methods in these cells after activation.
Results are expressed as a normal oxidative index (NOI), which is the ratio of the fluorescence in stimulated cells to the fluorescence expressed in unstimulated cells.
The normal range is > 73 NOI.
Cronobacter sakazakii, previously named Enterobacter sakazakii, ia a Gram-negative, rod-shaped bacteria that is able to survive for long periods of time in a variety of environments, including dry foods and sewer water.
C. sakazakii infections are rare but when present can cause diarrhea, urinary tract infections, and severe bacteremia and meningitis.
It is most commonly isolated from infants and the elderly patients.
Cronobacter can be detected by phenotypic assays (e.g. α-glucosidase assays) or genotypic methods (e.g. PCR targeting dnaG and gluA genes), which were found to be more sensitive and specific.
A cyclic lipopeptide used to diagnosis cSSSI caused by gram positive organisms including MRSA strains, using the Kirby Bauer (agar diffusion) method.
5-Oxoproline+Pipecolate is a primary marker for Pyroglutamic acidemia.
L-selectin, also known as CD62L, is a cell adhesion molecule found on leukocytes.
It belongs to the selectin family of proteins, which recognise sialylated carbohydrate groups.
It is cleaved by ADAM17.
SELL is a cell surface component that is a member of a family of adhesion/homing receptors which play important roles in leukocyte-endothelial cell interactions.
The molecule is composed of multiple domains: one homologous to lectins, one to epidermal growth factor, and two to the consensus repeat units found in C3/C4 binding proteins.
The serum-pleural effusion glucose gradient is measured as part a differential diagnosis of exudates and transudates and to diagnosis a pleuroperitoneal leak.
The liver absorbs almost all bile except approximately 1% which spills to the peripheral circulation.
With liver diseases, its ability to absorb bile acids may diminish, resulting in increased serum levels.
Patients with intestinal malabsorption and metabolic disorders such as Gilbert's disease, Crigler-Najjar syndrome, or Dubin-Johnson syndrome do not exhibit elevated bile acids concentrations.
The MSH6 gene (mutS homolog 6) is located on chromosome 2p16.
This gene encodes a member of the DNA mismatch repair MutS family.
In E. coli, the MutS protein helps in the recognition of mismatched nucleotides prior to their repair.
A highly conserved region of approximately 150 aa, called the Walker-A adenine nucleotide binding motif, exists in MutS homologs.
The encoded protein heterodimerizes with MSH2 to form a mismatch recognition complex that functions as a bidirectional molecular switch that exchanges ADP and ATP as DNA mismatches are bound and dissociated.
Mutations in this gene may be associated with hereditary nonpolyposis colon cancer, colorectal cancer, and endometrial cancer.
Transcripts variants encoding different isoforms have been described.
Platelet satellitism occurs when platelets suround polymorphonuclear neutrophils (PMN) to form complex rosettes.
This tends to occur at room temperature when EDTA is used as anticaogulant.
IgG autoantibodies directed against the glycoprotein IIb/IIIa complex of the platelets and the Fc receptor III of neutrophils have been implicated in this phenomenon.
The occurrence of platelet satellitism may cause a false decrease in platelet counts and it is important to identify it when reviewing differentials.
Information from Haematologica, Vol. 84(7): July 1999.
Peptostreptococcus anaerobius is a Gram positive anaerobic species and is commonly found in abdominal and female genitourinary infections.
It has also been identified as a pathogen in skin and soft tissue infections, joint infections, abscesses in a variety of locations, endocarditis, and burn and surgical wounds.
The renal juxtaglomerular apparatus generates renin, an enzyme that converts angiotensinogen to angiotensin I. Angiotensinogen, derived from the liver, is an alpha-2-globulin.
The inactive angiotensin I is enzymatically converted to the active octapeptide angiotensin II, which is a potent vasopressor responsible for hypertension of renal orgin.
Renin activity is elevated in renal vascular diseases and suppressed in primary hyperaldosteronism.
Renin activity is affected by diuretics and low sodium stimulates activity.
Diospyros kaki, better known as the Japanese Persimmon, Kaki Persimmon or Asian Persimmon in North America, is the most widely cultivated species of the Diospyros genus
Vecuronium (Norcuron) is a muscle relaxant in the category of non-depolarizing blocking agents.
Vecuronium bromide is indicated as an adjunct to general anesthesia, to facilitate endotracheal intubation and to provide skeletal muscle relaxation during surgery or mechanical ventilation.
Although vecuronium bromide is often thought of as a muscle relaxant, it may be more accurate to classify it as a paralyzing agent.
The p53 antigen was first discovered in 1979 and recognized as a tumor repressive gene in 1989.
It encodes a protein that monitors the cell cycle by suppressing tumor growth and preventing genome mutation.
When p53 is defective, abnormal cell proliferation can occur.
Mutations in p53 are present in up to 50% of all human tumors.
The three major functions of p53 include growth arrest, DNA repair, and apoptosis.
P53 halts the growth arrest function of the cell cycle progress which can activate transcription of proteins that repair DNA.
There are low levels of p53 in normal cells, but damage to DNA and similar stress signals may precipitate an increase of p53 protein.
Cell death is the final course of action to prevent cells containing abnormal DNA from dividing.
The concentration of P53 in cells is probably tightly controlled since high concentrations may accelerate aging due to excess apoptosis.
Ongoing studies are investigating the utility of the p53 antibody being used as a biomarker for the early detection of lung cancer in high risk asymptomatic patients.
Platelet-derived growth factor receptors (PDGFRs) are cell surface tyrosine kinase receptors for members of the platelet-derived growth factor (PDGF) family.
PDGF subunits -A and -B are important factors regulating cell proliferation, cellular differentiation, cell growth, development and many diseases including cancer.
There are two forms of the PDGFR-- alpha and beta -- each encoded by a different gene.
Depending on which growth factor is bound, PDGFR homo- or heterodimerizes.
Like many other growth factors that have been linked to disease, PDGF and its receptors have provided a market for receptor antagonists to treat disease.
Such antagonists include (but are not limited to) specific antibodies that target the molecule of interest, which act only in a neutralizing manner.
The dialysate flow rate is typically ten times lower than the blood flow rate in order to enhance solute clearance.
The London plane, easily recognised by the bark, which exfoliates in large flakes, is renowned as a street tree, particularly in Europe.
The origin of this hybrid is uncertain.
It is found planted from southern and central Europe to western Asia, North America, South Africa, Australia and New Zealand, especially in urban areas.
Plane trees are an important source of airborne allergens in many cities of the United States and Western Europe.
and exposure to London plane tree pollen can induce asthma, allergic rhinitis and allergic conjunctivitis; systemic reactions have occurred during immunotherapy
Blackberry is native to Britain.
It was always popular as a wild fruit and only developed as a garden fruit about 1850.
The Blackberry is an evergreen or semi-evergreen plant with woody, scrambling stems.
The ripe fruit is an aggregate of small, purplish-black droplets attached to a cone-shaped receptacle, which readily separates from the plant when the berries are picked.
Allergy to Blackberry has rarely been reported.
3-Methylhistidine is a product of peptide bond synthesis and methylation of actin and myosin.
The measurement of 3-Methylhistidine provides an index of the rate of muscle protein breakdown.
Homocystine is the double-bonded form of homocysteine, but it occurs only transiently before being converted to the harmless cystathionine via a vitamin B6-dependent enzyme.
Homocystine and homocysteine-cysteine mixed disulfide account for >98% of total homocysteine in plasma from healthy individuals.
Oxidation of low-density lipoprotein (LDL) is thought to be a major factor in the pathophysiology of atherosclerosis.
Elevated plasma homocysteine is an accepted risk factor for atherosclerosis, and may act through LDL oxidation, although this is controversial.
However, the major thiol in plasma is cysteine, which is present at concentrations approximately 10 times greater than homocysteine; therefore homocystine in plasma is insignificant, and consequently homocystine is unlikely to influence LDL oxidation in vivo.
Increasing evidence supports a role for an elevation of homocysteine in schizophrenia.
It has been demonstrated that neural tube defects are related to a genetic defect in homocysteine metabolism.
Sufficient intake of folic acid is believed to reduce this risk by enhancing methylation of homocysteine and its conversion to methionine, thereby compensating for this genetic defect.
Plasma homocysteine levels are elevated when folate levels are in the lower half of the normal range.
Phenylpropionylglycine is an acyl glycine.
Acyl glycines are normally minor metabolites of fatty acids.
However, the excretion of certain acyl glycines is increased in several inborn errors of metabolism.
In certain cases the measurement of these metabolites in body fluids can be used to diagnose disorders associated with mitochondrial fatty acid beta-oxidation.
Acyl glycines are produced through the action of glycine N-acyltransferase, which is an enzyme that catalyzes the chemical reaction:acyl-CoA + glycine < -- > CoA + N-acylglycine.
The detection of phenylpropionylglycine in urine after an oral load of phenylpropionic acid can be used to diagnose deficiency of medium-chain acyl-CoA dehydrogenase, a frequent and treatable metabolic defect.
Norfloxacin is a synthetic broad-spectrum fluorquinolone that is effective against aerobic and anaerobic Gram-positive and Gram-negative bacteria.
Norfloxacin blocks bacterial enzyme activity of DNA gyrase and topoisomerase that are required to synthesize mRNA and DNA for bacterial replication.
Norfloxacin was used for years to treat many bacterial infections, but now has limited indications for urinary tract infections, prostatitis, and sexually transmitted diseases caused by sensitive organisms.
Side effects of norfloxacin include gastrointestinal upset, skin rash, and allergic reactions.
More severe reactions to treatment using norfloxacin included prolongation of the QT interval, seizures, hallucinations, tendon rupture, hypersensitivity reactions, angioedema, photosensitivity and peripheral neuropathy.
It has rarely been associated with acute hepatocellular injury.
A gas that has been used as an aerosol propellant and is the starting material for polyvinyl resins.
Toxicity studies have shown various adverse effects, particularly the occurrence of liver neoplasms.
Tetranychus urticae (an animal with over 60 common names, including red spider mite and two-spotted spider mite) is one of many species of plant-feeding mites found in dry environments, and generally considered a pest.
It is the most widely known member of the family Tetranychidae or spider mites.
Porphyrins increased in lead poisoning, exposure to certain drugs and chemical, tyrosinemia, secondary polycythemia, liver disease, thalassemia, oral contraceptive use and chronic inflammation.
Bioactive compounds are extranutritional constituents that typically occur in small quantities in foods, and that vary widely in their chemical structure and function.
Numerous bioactive compounds are being studied for their possible beneficial health effects.
Examples of foods rich in bioactive compounds are fruits, vegetables, whole grains, legumes, and nuts.
The ABCD1 gene (ATP-binding cassette, sub-family D (ALD), member 1) is located on chromosome Xq28.
The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the superfamily of ATP-binding cassette (ABC) transporters.
ABC proteins transport various molecules across extra- and intra-cellular membranes.
ABC genes are divided into seven distinct subfamilies (ABC1, MDR/TAP, MRP, ALD, OABP, GCN20, White).
This protein is a member of the ALD subfamily, which is involved in peroxisomal import of fatty acids and/or
fatty acyl-CoAs in the organelle.
All known peroxisomal ABC transporters are half transporters which require a partner half transporter molecule to form a functional homodimeric or heterodimeric transporter.
This peroxisomal membrane protein is likely involved in the peroxisomal transport or catabolism of very long chain fatty acids.
Defects in this gene have been identified as the underlying cause of adrenoleukodystrophy, an X-chromosome recessively inherited demyelinating disorder of the nervous system.
N-Acetylaspartic acid, or N-acetylaspartate (NAA), is a derivative of aspartic acid with a formula of C6H9NO5 and a molecular weight of 175.139.
Protein A is a 56 kDa MSCRAMM surface protein originally found in the cell wall of the bacterium Staphylococcus aureus.
As a pathogen Staphylococcus aureus utilizes Protein A, along with a host of other proteins and surface factors to aid its survival and, thus, virulence.
Protein A helps inhibit phagocytic engulfment and acts as an immunological disguise.
Mutants of S. aureus lacking protein A are more efficiently phagocytosed in vitro, and mutants in infection models have diminished virulence.
Higher levels of Protein A in different strains of S. aureus have been associated with nasal carriage of this bacteria.
The RUNX1 gene (runt related transcription factor 1) is located on chromosome 21q22.12.
Core binding factor (CBF) is a heterodimeric transcription factor that binds to the core element of many enhancers and promoters.
The protein encoded by this gene represents the alpha subunit of CBF and is thought to be involved in the development of normal hematopoiesis.
Chromosomal translocations involving this gene are well-documented and have been associated with several types of leukemia.
Three transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
Distinguishing gp120 & gp160 bands is often difficult, therefore, they are considered to be the same for the purposes of interpreting Western Blot results
Translocation (8;21) resulting in a fused transcript between RUNX1T1 (also known as ETO) and RUNX1 genes is one of the most common chromosomal translocations found in acute myeloid leukemia (AML).
The RUNX1T1-RUNX1 fusion transcript is found in approximately 12% of all AML patients.
RUNX1 is a transcription factor that regulates critical processes in many aspects of hematopoiesis and is essential in defining the final hematopoietic stem cell.
It is involved in many forms of chromosomal translocations in leukemia.
In addition, many hematological diseases have been associated with mutations in RUNX1.
Levulinate is a component of porphyrin metabolism.
It is a crystalline keto acid prepared from levulose, inulin, starch, etc., by boiling them with dilute hydrochloric or sulfuric acids.
The KCNQ1 gene (potassium channel, voltage gated KQT-like subfamily Q, member 1) is located on chromosome 11p15.5.
This gene encodes a voltage-gated potassium channel required for repolarization phase of the cardiac action potential.
This protein can form heteromultimers with two other potassium channel proteins, KCNE1 and KCNE3.
Mutations in this gene are associated with hereditary long QT syndrome 1 (also known as Romano-Ward syndrome), Jervell and Lange-Nielsen syndrome, and familial atrial fibrillation.
This gene exhibits tissue-specific imprinting, with preferential expression from the maternal allele in some tissues, and biallelic expression in others.
This gene is located in a region of chromosome 11 amongst other imprinted genes that are associated with Beckwith-Wiedemann syndrome (BWS), and itself has been shown to be disrupted by chromosomal rearrangements in patients with BWS.
Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been found for this gene.
The MARS2 gene (methionyl-tRNA synthetase 2, mitochondrial) is located on chromosome 2q33.1.
This gene produces a mitochondrial methionyl-tRNA synthetase protein that is encoded by the nuclear genome and imported to the mitochondrion.
This protein likely functions as a monomer and is predicted to localize to the mitochondrial matrix.
Mutations in this gene are associated with the autosomal recessive neurodegenerative disease spastic ataxia-3 (SPAX3).
Tetrahydrodeoxycortisol (THS) is a mineralocorticoid the main urinary metabolite of 11-deoxycortisol.
THS excretion is significantly associated with tetrahydroaldosterone excretion, total androgen excretion, and cortisol metabolites.
Aldosterone synthesis is highly heritable and is affected by genotype at CYP11B1.
Variation in the region of chromosome 8 including the genes steroid 11-beta-hydroxylase (CYP11B1) and aldosterone synthase (CYP11B2) influences mineralocorticoid and glucocorticoid metabolism; differences in 11-hydroxylation efficiency can have downstream effects on mineralocorticoid synthesis.
Such effects may be of relevance to the development of low-renin essential hypertension.
Genotype differences in CYP11B1 explains approximately 5% of the variance in urinary THS excretion in the population.
Excretion of THS is heritable (19.4%) and the T-allele of the -344 C/T polymorphism of CYP11B2 is more strongly associated with higher THS levels than the C-allele., , .
The EZH2 gene, located on chromosome 7, encodes a subunit of a histone methyltransferase enzyme.
Histone methyltransferases regulate gene expression by the addition of methyl groups to histones.
EZH2 mutations are associated with various cancers, including different types of lymphoma and leukemia as well as solid tumors including breast and prostate cancer.
EZH2 mutations are also associated with Weaver syndrome, a genetic disorder with characteristic features that include tall stature, hypertelorism, micrognathia, low-set ears, and a broad forehead.
Some patients with Weaver syndrome also have mild intellectual disability and macrocephaly.
Isoleucine an essential, branched-chain aliphatic amino acid found in many proteins.
It is an isomer of leucine and important in hemoglobin synthesis, the regulation of blood sugar, and in maintaining energy levels.
Isoleucine is synthesized from pyruvate employing leucine biosynthesis enzymes in other organisms such as bacteria.
The inability to break down isoleucine, along with other amino acids, is associated with Maple Syrup Urine Disease.
Foods that have high amounts of isoleucine include eggs, soy protein, seaweed, turkey, chicken, lamb, cheese, and fish.
Pibrentasvir is a hepatitis C virus (HCV) NS5A protein inhibitor.
As of 2019, it is available in the U.S. in combination with glecaprevir, an HCV NS3/NS4A protease inhibitor.
The combination drug has high efficacy in treating patients with chronic HCV infection for HCV genotypes 1-6 ("pangenotypic").
A band cell (or band neutrophil) is a white blood cell undergoing granulopoiesis.
It is derived from a metamyelocyte which eventually will become a mature granulocyte.
In contrat to other neutrophils, band neutrophils possess a curved nucleus rather than a lobar one.
Nafcillin is an antibiotic in the penicillin therapeutic category, used for treatment of infections such as osteomyolitis, septicemia, endocarditis, and CNS infectins caused by susceptible strains of staphylococci species.
The L80I mutation is associated with Adefovir resistance.
This LOINC code is not constrained to this specific product.
Succinic acid (IUPAC systematic name:butanedioic acid ; historically known as spirit of amber) is a dicarboxylic acid.
At room temperature, pure succinic acid is a solid that forms colorless, odorless prisms.
It has a melting point of 185°C and a boiling point of 235°C.
The anion, succinate, is a component of the citric acid cycle and is capable of donating electrons to the electron transfer chain via the following reaction: succinate + FAD †' fumarate + FADH2
This is catalysed by the enzyme succinate dehydrogenase (or complex II of the mitochondrial ETC).
The complex is a 4 subunit membrane-bound lipoprotein which couples the oxidation of succinate to the reduction of ubiquinone.
Intermediate electron carriers are FAD and three Fe2 S2 clusters part of subunit B. Esters of succinic acid are called dialkyl succinates.
Test for allergy to house dust, Hollister-Stier Labs.
Mite, cockroach and animal allergens are major components of house dust.
Cholesterol is a lipidic, waxy alcohol found in the cell membranes and transported in the blood plasma of all animals.
It is an essential component of mammalian cell membranes where it establishes proper membrane permeability and fluidity.
Cholesterol is the principal sterol synthesized by animals, but small quantities are synthesized in other eukaryotes, such as plants and fungi.
It is almost completely absent among prokaryotes, which include bacteria.
Cholesterol is classified as a sterol.
Dolutegravir is an experimental new drug under investigation for the treatment of HIV infection.
Dolutegravir is an integrase inhibitor.
Weight is a term of measurement that refers to either an object's mass or to the gravitational force acting on the object.
In physics, however, it is more specifically defined as the force due to gravity.
Thus weight will vary depending on the geographical location whereas mass is constant.
Non-susceptibility to carbapenems in gram-negative bacilli by means of the enzyme KPC (Klebsiella pneumoniae carbapenemase) is becoming more common.
The gene beta-lactamase KPC (bla(KPC)) encodes KPC enzyme production, which in turn hydrolyzes and inactivates carbapenem antibiotics.
KPC enzymes are a class A beta lactamases with several variants (KPC-2, KPC-3, etc) known.
Various methods are used to detect specific portions of genes encoding KPC production.
Carbapenemases can also be detected by other methods, including the modified Hodge test to detect carbapenemase production in isolates and minimum inhibitory concentration (MIC) to determine level of resistance.
The Sweet potato, belonging to the Morning glory family and not related to Potatoes, is native to the West Indies and Central America, although early reports place it in Indonesia and Philippines too.
It is a vine-like, perennial herb but is cultivated as an annual.
It is now grown in more than 100 countries in tropical, sub-tropical and temperate climates.
It is 1 of only 7 world food crops with an annual production of more than 100 million metric tons per year, and ranks thirteenth globally in production value among agricultural commodities.
It is cultivated primarily for the enlarged edible storage roots, which provide large amounts of starch.
Anecdotal evidence suggests that Sweet potato can occasionally induce symptoms of food allergy in sensitised individuals; however, no studies have been reported to date.
An indicator of body density as determined by the relationship of BODY WEIGHT to BODY HEIGHT.
BMI=weight (kg)/height squared (m2).
BMI correlates with body fat (ADIPOSE TISSUE).
Their relationship varies with age and gender.
For adults, BMI falls into these categories: below 18.5 (underweight); 18.5-24.9 (normal); 25.0-29.9 (overweight); 30.0 and above (obese).
(National Center for Health Statistics, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)
The PEO gene (polymerase (DNA directed), gamma) gene is located on chromosome 15q25.
Mitochondrial DNA polymerase is heterotrimeric, consisting of a homodimer of accessory subunits plus a catalytic subunit.
The protein encoded by this gene is the catalytic subunit of mitochondrial DNA polymerase.
The encoded protein contains a polyglutamine tract near its N-terminus that may be polymorphic.
Defects in this gene are a cause of progressive external ophthalmoplegia with mitochondrial DNA deletions 1 (PEOA1), sensory ataxic neuropathy dysarthria and ophthalmoparesis (SANDO), Alpers-Huttenlocher syndrome (AHS), and mitochondrial neurogastrointestinal encephalopathy syndrome (MNGIE).
Two transcript variants encoding the same protein have been found for this gene.
Endothelin 1, also known as EDN1, is a human gene and the corresponding peptide, one of three isoforms of human endothelin.
Temazepam is a benzodiazepine that acts as a GAMMA-AMINOBUTYRIC ACID modulator and anti-anxiety agent.
Temazepam glucuronide is a metabolite of temazepam.
The quantitative determination of proviral HIV-1 DNA load is determined for antiretroviral treatment, particularly when HIV-1 RNA levels drop below the detectable limits during treatment.
HIV-1 proviral DNA is also a diagnostic marker for HIV-1 infections in newborns of HIV-1 seropositive women.
Root plant belonging to the mustard family.
Flesh of brownish-yellow root used to prepare a hot-tasting condiment.
Not related to radish family.
Natural decongestant, may help with sinusitis.
If used fresh, is often mixed with flavour softeners like cream.
The HBB gene (hemoglobin, beta) is located on chromosome 11p15.5.
The alpha (HBA) and beta (HBB) loci determine the structure of the 2 types of polypeptide chains in adult hemoglobin, Hb A.
The normal adult hemoglobin tetramer consists of two alpha chains and two beta chains.
Mutant beta globin causes sickle cell anemia.
Absence of beta chain causes beta-zero-thalassemia.
Reduced amounts of detectable beta globin causes beta-plus-thalassemia.
The order of the genes in the beta-globin cluster is 5'-epsilon -- gamma-G -- gamma-A -- delta -- beta--3'.
The Respiratory Disturbance Index (RDI) is the average number of all respiratory disturbances including, apneas, hypopneas and respiratory effort related arousals, per hour of sleep.
Activated partial thromboplastic time with excess phospholipid is a confirmatory lab test for lupus anticoagulants (LA), which are phospholipid autoantibodies associated with excess clot formation, excess bleeding, and repeated miscarriages.
Confirmatory testing measures aPTT in the presence of excess phospholipid, which saturates the antibody binding sites and thereby diminishes the inhibitory effect of the LA, resulting in a normalization of the aPTT.
The aPTT screen to confirm ratio is calculated as Screen aPTT/Confirm aPTT, and the aPTT percent correction is calculated as x100.
Used to detect hyper and hypo aldosteronisnm.
Hypoaldosteronism can occur in any condition that causes destruction or dysfunction of the adrenal gland.1,2,4 Hypoaldosterism can be due to primary adrenal insufficiency, congenital adrenal hypoplasia, acquired secondary aldosterone deficiency (hyporeninemic hypoaldosteronism), and acquired Hyporeninemic hypoaldosteronism is the most common form of isolated hypoaldosteronism and is results from impaired renin release from the kidney.
Congenital hypoaldosteronism caused by inherited enzymatic defects in aldosterone biosynthesis are rare.
Corticosterone methyloxidase I (CMO I) deficiency is associated with elevated serum levels of corticosterone and low levels of 18-hydroxy-corticosterone and aldosterone.
Corticosterone methyloxidase II (CMO II) deficiency produces high levels of 18-hydroxy-corticosterone, the immediate precursor of aldosterone.
Acquired primary hypoaldosteronism can be caused by the administration of heparin.
Also, persistently hypotensive, critically ill patients with sepsis, pneumonia, peritonitis, cholangitis, and liver failure can have inappropriately low plasma aldosterone concentrations in relation to elevated plasma renin activity.
Primary hyperaldosteronism, also referred to as Conn syndrome, is due to overproduction of aldosterone by one or both of the adrenal glands.
Some recent studies suggest that 10% to 15% of Hyper thyroidism cases are due to (or associated with) primary hyperaldosteronism.
Secondary hyperaldosteronism is relatively common and can occur as the result of any condition that decreases blood flow to the kidneys (ie, renal artery stenosis), decreases blood pressure, or lowers plasma sodium levels.
Secondary hyperaldosteronism may also be seen with cirrhosis, congestive heart failure.
and toxemia of pregnancy.
Several studies have suggested that high-normal aldosterone levels predict development of high blood pressure in normotensive subjects and that increased aldosterone action contributes to hypertension, cardiovascular fibrosis, and cardiac hypertrophy.
C1 Inhibitor Gene Mutation Database
Watermelon is widely grown in tropical and sub-tropical climates, and is an especially popular seasonal fruit in the southern United States.
The plant has trailing vines and very large fruit (commonly up to half a metre long) with smooth, thick, green skin, and sometimes darker green stripes.
The flesh is sweet, and pink, red or yellow in color.
Watermelon may uncommonly induce symptoms of food allergy in sensitised individuals.
Allergic reactions include oral allergy syndrome or oropharyngeal symptoms (itching and/or swelling of the lips, tongue, or throat), urticaria, dermatitis, angioedema, and dyspnoea
An ocular motility exam is an examination of the movements of the eyes.
The examiner moves their wiggling fingers to different quadrants of the visual field, asks the patient to follow their fingers with his/her eyes and notes any limitation in movement.
A phospholipid-interacting antimalarial drug (ANTIMALARIALS).
It is very effective against PLASMODIUM FALCIPARUM with very few side effects.
Antihistamines are a class of drugs that block the action of histamine at the H1 receptor sites, responsible for immediate hypersensitivity reactions such as sneezing and itching, and they may also be used for their side effects, including sedation and antiemesis.
Histamine is a compound released in allergic inflammatory reactions and is responsible for immediate hypersensitivity reactions such as sneezing and itching.
Mirtazapine is metabolized by N-demethylation to normirtazapine, which is thought to account for 5-10% of total activity of the parent compound.
Normirtazapine accumulates with chronic treatment.
Measurement of Mirtazapine and Normirtazapine in plasma, hair and other specimens are useful for assessing compliance and in diagnosis of acute poisoning.
Novobiocin is a coumarin antibiotic used to treat Staphylococcus epidermidis.
It acts by inhibiting DNA gyrase, an enzyme that mediates the supercoiling of DNA.
DNA gyrase has no mammalian equivalent.
Novobiocin is an aromatic ether compound.
Ezogabine or Retigabine, also known ad D-23129, is an anticonvulsant used as a treatment for partial epilepsies.
Its primary active metabolite is N-acetyl ezogabine.
Ezogabine works primarily as a potassium channel opener-that is, by activating a certain family of voltage-gated potassium channels in the brain.
This mechanism of action is unique among antiepileptic drugs, and may hold promise for the treatment of other neurologic conditions, including migraine, tinnitus and neuropathic pain.
Parvovirus B19 (B19 virus) was the first (and, until 2005, only) human parvovirus to be discovered, by chance in 1975 by the Australian virologist Yvonne Cossart.
The name B19 refers to the location of the virus in the Petri dish where it was growing initially.
Parvovirus B19 is best known for causing a childhood exanthem called fifth disease or erythema infectiosum.
The GNAS1 gene (GNAS complex locus) gene is located on chromosome 20q13.3.
This locus has a highly complex imprinted expression pattern.
It gives rise to maternally, paternally, and biallelically expressed transcripts that are derived from four alternative promoters and 5' exons.
Some transcripts contain a differentially methylated region (DMR) at their 5' exons, and this DMR is commonly found in imprinted genes and correlates with transcript expression.
An antisense transcript is produced from an overlapping locus on the opposite strand.
One of the transcripts produced from this locus, and the antisense transcript, are paternally expressed noncoding RNAs, and may regulate imprinting in this region.
In addition, one of the transcripts contains a second overlapping ORF, which encodes a structurally unrelated protein - Alex.
Alternative splicing of downstream exons is also observed, which results in different forms of the stimulatory G-protein alpha subunit, a key element of the classical signal transduction pathway linking receptor-ligand interactions with the activation of adenylyl cyclase and a variety of cellular reponses.
Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
Mutations in this gene result in pseudohypoparathyroidism type 1a, pseudohypoparathyroidism type 1b, Albright hereditary osteodystrophy, pseudopseudohypoparathyroidism, McCune-Albright syndrome, progressive osseus heteroplasia, polyostotic fibrous dysplasia of bone, and some pituitary tumors.
The effective regurgitant orifice area (EROA) is the size of the defect where the valve leaflets are not aligning normally (coaptation defect).
The severity of valve regurgitation is related to the EROA.
Patients with autoimmune inner ear disease AIED typically experience hearing loss and tinnitus over several months, but variations of the onset of AIED can include bilateral attacks of hearing loss, attacks of dizziness, and the presence of autoantibodies.
The hair cells in the inner are commonly affected and damage to them leads to hearing loss and problems with balance.
The cause of AIED is believed to be due to damage of the inner ear from autoantibodies or immune cells and cytokines due to inflammation.
Viral or bacterial infections may induce the production of antibodies that cross react with inner ear antigens.
Seventy percent of patients diagnosed with autoimmune hearing loss test positive for antibodies to the 68kD inner ear antigen.
The antibody level correlates with the severity of the disease.
The majority of patients with 68kD inner ear antigen autoantibodies respond well to corticosteroid treatment.
Angiotensin (1-7) is an active heptapeptide (amino acid sequence: Asp-Arg-Val-Tyr-Ile-His-Pro) of the renin-angiotensin system (RAS), a pathway involved in the regulation of cardiovascular physiology.
It is part of a group of peptides with amino acid sequence and biological function similar to angiotensin-(1-8) octapeptide (Angiotensin II).
The amino acid sequence of angiotensin-(1-10) decapeptide (Asp-Arg-Val-Tyr-Ile-His-Pro-Phe-His-Leu) serves as reference for all angiotensin peptides.
Ang (1-7) is a product of the angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) 2 and can be produced from metabolism of both Angiotensin II and Angiotensin I via different pathways.
Both ACE2 and Ang (1-7) are thought to have counteracting effects against other RAS components, such as angiotensin II.
Several studies have found that Ang (1-7) and ACE2 have protective effects in the heart and blood vessels and could serve as therapeutic targets for cardiovascular disease.
Saccharopolyspora rectivirgula, formerly known as Micropolyspora faeni, is an aerobic, thermophilic, gram-positive and filamentous bacterial strain that produces short chains of spores both on substrates and on aerial mycelia.
S. rectivirgula can be found in soil and moldy hay, and its airborne spores are known to cause exogen allergic alveolitis (EAA, a type of hypersensitive pneumonitis).
S. rectivirgula spores exist in large numbers in compost facilities, mushroom cultivation, barns, and rooms with technical air moistening.
Farmer's lung disease, another form of hypersensitive pheumonitis, is one of the most common causes of S. rectivirgula, especially in eastern Canada.
It has also been associated with a respiratory disease in horses known as heaves.
The T cell receptor or TCR is a molecule found on the surface of T lymphocytes (or T cells) that is, in general, responsible for recognizing antigens bound to major histocompatibility complex (MHC) molecules.
The TCR is composed of two different protein chains (that is, it is a heterodimer).
In 95% of T cells, this consists of an alpha (α) chain (TCRA gene) and beta (β) chain (TCRB gene), whereas in 5% of T cells this consists of gamma (γ) chain (TCRG gene) and delta (δ) chain (TCRD gene).
When the TCR engages with antigen and MHC, this activates the T lymphocyte through a series of biochemical events mediated by associated enzymes, co-receptors, specialized accessory molecules and activated or released transcription factors.
Type-IV collagen is a type of collagen found primarily in the basal lamina.
The type IV collagen C4 domain at the C-terminus is not removed in post-translational processing, and the fibers link head-to-head, rather than in parallel.
Also, type-IV lacks the regular glycine in every third residue necessary for the tight, collagen helix.
This makes the overall arrangement more sloppy with kinks.
These two features cause the collagen to form in a sheet, the form of the basal lamina.
The alpha 3 protein constituent of type-IV collagen is thought to be the antigen implicated in Goodpasture's syndrome, wherein the immune system attacks the basement membranes of the glomeruli and the alveoli.
Mutations to the genes coding for type-IV collagen lead to Alport syndrome.
History and physical (H&P) note is a medical report that documents the current and past conditions of the patient.
It contains essential information that helps determine an individual's health status.
Haemophilus parasuis is a gram-negative organism that is harbored in the upper respiratory tract of healthy pigs.
It causes Glasser's disease, which is characterized by polyarthritis, polyserositis and meningitis and associated with high morbidity and mortality.
Virulence factors include resistance to phagocytosis as well as endothelial invasion, polysaccharide capsule, and biofilm production.
Biofilms are enclosed clusters of bacterial cells that are able to resist the host immune system as well as environmental factors such as dessication.
ImmunoCAP Phadiatop is a blood test designed to differentiate between atopic and non-atopic patients.
Results indicate high or low probability for atopy.
A negative result indicates that the symptoms are not caused by common environmental allergens.
The distance from the distal crown contact of the maxillary first molar measured back to Pterygoid-Vertical (line from Pterygoid, perpendicular to the Frankfort horizontal plane)
This Old World rodent is related to Voles, Lemmings, and New World Mice.
There are many Hamster species, classified in several genera.
They are solitary, burrowing, nocturnal animals, with chunky bodies, usually short tails, soft, thick fur, and large external cheek pouches used for holding food.
Hamsters feed on grain and other plant matter and are serious agricultural pests in many parts of their range.
The Syrian, or Golden Hamster, of Eastern Europe and Western Asia, is familiar as a laboratory animal and pet.
Asthma, allergic rhinitis and allergic conjunctivitis occur frequently in laboratory workers dealing with Hamsters and in individuals keeping these rodents as domestic pets.
Lysophosphatidylcholine(22:0), or LysoPC(22:0), is a lysophospholipid (LyP); it is a monoglycerophospholipid in which a phosphorylcholine moiety occupies a glycerol substitution site.
Further, LysoPC(22:0) consists of one chain of behenic acid at the C-1 (sn-1) position.
LysoPC(22:0) is measured in dried blood spots (DBS) and used in conjunction with other Lysophosphatidylcholines for the diagnosis, monitoring and treatment of X-ALD other peroxisomal disorders.
Cefteram is an oral, third generation cephalosporin antibiotic that is effective against both gram positive and gram negative bacteria, including Streptococcus pneumoniae, Haemophilus influenzae, and Neisseria gonorrhoeae.
Leptospira borgpetersenii serovar Hardjo-bovis is one serovar of Leptospira that causes bovine leptospirosis, which is associated with reproductive failure (bovine abortions), as well as zoonotic infection, which manifests as an influenza-like illness, in humans.
In different geographic areas, the Hardjo-bovis serovar may cause bovine illness, human illness, or both, and these differences may be due to genetic variability between isolates.
Abnormal head shape can encompass a number of specifically named shape defects such as pyriform and tapering, as well as unamed defects which would fall under the term amorphous.
6-oxo-pipecolate (6-oxo-PIP) and two diastereomers of 2-oxopropylpiperidine-2-carobylic acid (2-OPP) are identified biomarkers for pyridoxine-dependent epilepsy (PDE-ALDH7A1).
PDE-ALDH7A1 is characterized by seizures that are responsive clinically and electrographically to daily supplements of pyridoxine (vitamin B6) and not well controlled with anti-seizure medications.
Two forms, classic and atypical, of PDE-ALDH7A1 have been described.
Legionella is a pathogenic Gram negative bacterium with at least 50 species and 70 serogroups identified.
Several Legionella species, especially L. pneumophila, cause legionellosis (Legionnaires' disease).
The most common sources of Legionella and Legionnaires' disease outbreaks are cooling towers (used in industrial cooling water systems), domestic hot water systems,and spas.
Additional sources include large central air conditioning systems, fountains, domestic cold water, swimming pools (especially in scandinavian countries and northern ireland) and similar disseminators that draw upon a public water supply.
Whole Blood is the term used in transfusion medicine for human blood from a standard blood donation.
The blood is typically combined with an anticoagulant during the collection process, but is generally otherwise unprocessed.
In the US, the capitalized "Whole Blood" means a specific standardized product for transfusion or further processing, where "whole blood" is any unmodified collected blood.
Taxodium distichum (Baldcypress, Bald Cypress, or Swamp Cypress) is a species of conifer native to the southeastern United States.
Isoamyl alcohol is a clear, colorless alcohol with the formula (CH3)2CHCH2CH2OH.
It is one of several isomers of amyl alcohol.
A topically used antibiotic from a strain of Pseudomonas fluorescens.
It has shown excellent activity against gram-positive staphylococci and streptococci.
The antibiotic is used primarily for the treatment of primary and secondary skin disorders, nasal infections, and wound healing.
Mitochondrial myopathy, encephalopathy, lactic acidosis and stoke like episodes syndrome (MELAS) gene mutation causes detection of an A to G point mutation at base pair 3243 in the mitochondrial tRNA Leucine (MTTL1) gene.
Potentia Hydrogenii, commonly known as pH, is a quantitative measurement of the acidity or basicity of a substance.
A substance's pH value is based on a relative scale from 1-14 depending on the substance's proton ion concentration (H+).
A higher proton ion concentration results in a lower pH value.
Therefore, a pH value between 0 and 7 is an acidic substance whereas a pH value between 7 and 14 is an alkaline/basic substance.
A pH value of exactly 7 is a neutral substance.
The specific pH value of the blood is crucial in maintaining bodily functions.
When the blood pH value is below normal range it is called acidosis.
When the blood pH value is above normal range, it is called alkadosis.
Acidosis/alkadosis can be divided into two categories: metabolic and respiratory.
Oxytetracycline was the second of the broad-spectrum tetracycline group of antibiotics to be discovered.
Oxytetracycline is a broad spectrum antibiotic that is active against a wide variety of bacteria.
However, some strains of bacteria have developed resistance to this antibiotic, which has reduced its effectiveness for treating some types of infection.
Oxytetracycline is still used to treat infections caused by chlamydia (e.g. the chest infection psittacosis, the eye infection trachoma, and the genital infection urethritis) and infections caused by mycoplasma organisms (e.g. pneumonia).
Oxytetracycline is used to treat acne, due to its activity against the bacteria on the skin that cause acne (Propionebacterium acnes).
It is used to treat flare-ups of chronic bronchitis, due to its activity against the bacteria usually responsible, Haemophilus influenzae.
Oxytetracycline may also be used to treat other rarer infections, such as those caused by a group of micro-organisms called rickettsiae (e.g. Q fever).
To make sure the bacteria causing an infection are susceptible to oxytetracycline a tissue sample is usually taken, for example a swab from the infected area, or a urine or blood sample.
Ganglioside GT1a is a central nervous system ganglioside that is present in several cranial nerves, including oculomotor, glossopharyngeal and vagal nerves.
Anti-GT1a autoantibodies are found in patients with Guillain-Barre syndrome and frequently occur with anti-GQ1b antibodies.
SS18 gene (also known as SYT or SSXT) is located on chromosome 18 at position q11.2.
Chromosomal rearrangements involving the SS18 gene are seen in synovial sarcoma (SS), a malignant soft tissue sarcoma that primarily occurs in the lower extremities of children and young adults.
Triadica sebifera, also referred to as Sapium sebiferum, is commonly known as the Chinese tallow tree, Florida aspen and Gray Popcorn Tree.
Introduced to the United States, the tree is native to eastern Asia, and is most commonly associated with eastern China, Taiwan, and Japan.
In these regions, the waxy coating of the seeds is used for candle and soap making, and the leaves are used as herbal medicine to treat boils.
The plant sap and leaves are reputed to be toxic, and decaying leaves from the plant are toxic to other species of plant.
The specific epithets sebifera and sebiferum mean "wax-bearing" and refer to the vegetable tallow that coats the seeds.
The distance between Gonion and Menton
Alpha-Aminobutyric acid (AABA) is an isomer of the amino acid aminobutyric acid with chemical formula C4 H9 NO2.
There is also gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) and beta-aminobutyric acid.
It is a key intermediate in the biosynthesis of ophthalmic acid or ophthalmate, which was first isolated from calf lens.
Sézary cells, also known as Lutzner cells or Sézary-Lutzner cells, are malignant T-cells found in the skin, lymph nodes, and blood.
They have a cerebriform-like nucleus and are seen in patients with Sézary syndrome, a type of cutaneous T-cell lymphoma.
An arylsulfatase that catalyzes the hydrolysis of the 4-sulfate groups of the N-acetyl-D-galactosamine 4-sulfate units of chondroitin sulfate and dermatan sulfate.
A deficiency of this enzyme is responsible for the inherited lysosomal disease, Maroteaux-Lamy syndrome (MUCOPOLYSACCHARIDOSIS VI). .
Phenylalanine is a primary marker for phenylketonuria and hyperphenylalaninemia (variant, benign), two disorders of biopterin biosynthesis and regeneration.
Fenproporex (Perphoxene) is a stimulant drug of the phenethylamine and amphetamine chemical classes which was developed in the 1960s.
It is used as an appetite suppressant for the treatment of obesity.
Fenproporex produces amphetamine as a metabolite, and was withdrawn in many countries following problems with abuse, but it is still prescribed in some countries, mainly in Brazil.
Fenproporex has never been approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for sale in the US due to lack of efficacy and safety data.
Fenproporex is on the list of substances banned by the World Anti-Doping Agency, and any sportsperson testing positive for the substance faces a ban from competition
Canis familiaris (Can f) 4 is a dog dander allergen.
Dog dander consists of the very small pieces of epithelium that flake off the dog and can remain airborne for hours.
Dog dander has the highest concentration of allergens of any source from the dog.
The rate of epidermal turnover varies with the age of the dog and whether the dog suffers from seborrhea, which increases turnover from 21 days to 3-4 days.
The most significant dog allergen is Can f 1.
Can f 4 is a less important dog dander allergen.
The Canadian Triage and Acuity Score (CTAS) is a 5-level scale designed to support triage nurses prioritize ED patients based on acuity and time sensitive conditions.
It is built on a 17 group, 166 standardized complaints, each of which draws on a list of first order (vital sign, pain score, mechanism of injury, and bleeding risk) modifiers and complaint specific special modifiers to assign the most appropriate acuity score and to then stream patients to the right care area.
For patient safety and quality of care it is recommended for CTAS level 1 to be seen immediately, CTAS 2 within 15 minutes, CTAS 3 within 30 minutes, CTAS 4 within 1 hour and CTAS 5 within 2 hours.
A grass species producing pollen, which often induces hayfever, asthma and conjunctivitis in sensitised individuals.
False Oat grass is native to Europe and was brought to the United States early in the last century.
It is now grown widely, for making hay and for grazing, in the central and northern states.
World distribution includes the USSR, East Asia, and Africa.
Veterinary Medicine: Porcine parainfluenza virus 1 (PPIV1) is an enveloped, non-segmented, single-stranded RNA virus found only in domestic pigs.
PPIV1 was first identified in Hong Kong in samples collected between 2008 and 2012.
In 2013, the virus was discovered in clinical specimens of pigs with respiratory disease in the United States.
There have been no known infections of PPIV1 in humans.
PPIV1 is transmitted in respiratory secretions and symptoms of infection include lethargy, coughing and sneezing with serous nasal discharge.
Pigs less than 21 days old are most likely to be symptomatic when infected.
Some asymptomatic pigs have tested positive for the virus.
PPIV1 has not been cultured in cells but it can be seen in respiratory tissue using in situ hybridization and quantified using RT-PCR assays.
Assays that identify antibodies to PPIV1 include immunoprecipitation coupled with PCR detection (ICPD) and indirect enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay using a recombinant fusion (F) protein peptide (PPIV1 F ELISA).
There are currently no vaccines for PPIV1 available.
The fusion F protein mediates the union and penetration of the virus into the cell.
Glycopeptide antibiotic complex from Actinoplanes teichomyceticus active against gram-positive bacteria.
It consists of five major components each with a different fatty acid moiety.
A uronic acid is a sugar acid with both a carbonyl and a carboxylic acid function.
It is best thought of as a sugar in which the terminal carbon's hydroxyl function has been oxidized to a carboxylic acid.
(Oxidation of the terminal aldehyde instead yields an aldonic acid while oxidation of both the terminal hydroxyl group and the aldehyde yields an aldaric acid.)
The names of uronic acids are generally based on their parent sugars, however some of the most common do not have direct parents, and are formed by epimerization (e.g iduronic acid is an epimer of glucuronic acid).
Copper is an essential trace mineral present in all body tissue and works with iron to help the body form red blood cells.
It also helps keep the blood vessels, nerves, immune system, and bones healthy.
Copper also aids in iron absorption.
Oysters and other shellfish, whole grains, beans, nuts, potatoes, and organ meats are good sources of copper.
Dark leafy greens, dried fruits such as prunes, cocoa, black pepper, and yeast are also sources of copper in the diet.
Diphenhydramine indicated for: Antihistaminic Motion sickness Sedative Akathisia Other uses: Halting allergic reactions, controlling extrapyramidal side-effects induced by anticonvulsants Contraindications:Use in neonates and premature infantsUse in nursing mothersUse as a local anestheticUse in people with hypersensitivity to diphenhydramine hydrochloride and other antihistamines of similar chemical structure Non-medical useabuse:
Used as a hallucinogendeliriant Side effects :
This is the lag phase between addition of collagen and platelet aggregation
Gluten is the elastic rubbery protein present in Wheat, Rye, Barley and to a lesser degree in Oats.
It binds the dough in bread and other baked goods.
It contributes to consistency and sponginess.
Only Gluten from Wheat (and close family members), Barley, Rye and Oats may result in symptoms of coeliac disease (CD) in susceptible individuals.
Gluten is among the most important food components accounting for hypersensitivity reactions in children.
Adverse reactions to Gluten protein include food allergy, food-dependant exercise-induced asthma or anaphylaxis and coeliac disease, a non-IgE-mediated enteropathy caused by gliadin.
The onset of adverse reactions in the first 2 conditions may be immediate, delayed, or both immediate and delayed.
The most important House dust mites are Dermatophagoides farinae, which is more common in drier areas, and D. pteronyssinus.
D. farinae has many of the same characteristics as D. pteronyssinus, which co-exists with the Storage mite Blomia tropicalis in subtropical and tropical regions as a major source of allergens.
Recent evidence shows that even these very general boundaries are blurring and that in many instances all 3 mite species may be highly relevant, causing frequent sensitisation.
House dust mites cause symptoms such as perennial-type asthma, rhinitis and conjunctivitis, often with nocturnal or early morning episodes
The polymerase basic protein 2 (PB2) subunit of the influenza virus RNA polymerase enzyme is one of the determinants of the virulence of influenza viruses.
The molecular mechanisms are still not clear but research suggests that the PB2 subunit is imported by the mitochondrial import pathway and that there could be mitochondrial functions of PB2 which are important in the replication and pathogenesis of the viruses.
A pyrimidine inhibitor of dihydrofolate reductase, it is an antibacterial related to PYRIMETHAMINE.
The interference with folic acid metabolism may cause a depression of hematopoiesis.
It is potentiated by SULFONAMIDES and the TRIMETHOPRIM-SULFAMETHOXAZOLE COMBINATION is the form most often used.
It is sometimes used alone as an antimalarial.
TRIMETHOPRIM RESISTANCE has been reported.
Nefazodone (Serzone, Nefadar) is an antidepressant.
Its sale was discontinued in 2003 in some countries due to the rare incidence of hepatotoxicity (liver damage), which could lead to the need for a liver transplant, or even death.
Beta tryptase is a mast-cell specific serine protease thought to be involved in causing asthma and other allergic and inflammatory disorders.
CD6, a adhesion molecule linking developing thymus-cells to thymus epithelial cells; co-stimulator to mature T cells.
The APOB gene encodes apoliprotein B, a primary protein component of low-density lipoprotein (LDL or "bad" cholesterol), very low-density lipoprotein (VLDL) and chylomicrons.
Mutations in the APOB gene that affect the LDL receptor binding region are associated familial ligand-defective apoB-100 hypercholesterolemia (FDB).
The most common mutation known to be associated with FDB is p.Arg3500Gln
although a second mutation in the same codon, p.Arg3500Trp
(R3500W), is associated with FDB in certain populations.
Inclusion bodies are nuclear or cytoplasmic aggregates of stainable substances, usually proteins.
They typically represent sites of viral multiplication in a bacterium or a eukaryotic cell and usually consist of viral capsid proteins.
Inclusion bodies can also be hallmarks of genetic diseases, as in the case of Neuronal Inclusion bodies in disorders like Frontotemporal dementia and Parkinson's disease.
A wide spectrum aliphatic organophosphate insecticide widely used for both domestic and commercial agricultural purposes.
An antianginal and antiarrhythmic drug.
It increases the duration of ventricular and atrial muscle action by inhibiting Na,K-activated myocardial adenosine triphosphatase.
There is a resulting decrease in heart rate and in vascular resistance.
Lactoferrin (LF) is a globular multifunctional protein with antimicrobial activity (bacteriocide, fungicide), is part of the innate defense, mainly at mucoses.
Lactoferrin is found in milk and many mucosal secretions such as tears and saliva.
Lactoferrin is also present in secondary granules of PMN and also is secreted by some acinar cells.
Lactoferrin can be purified from milk or produced recombinantly.
Human colostrum has the highest concentration, followed by human milk, then cow milk.
Reticulocyte cellular hemoglobin distribution width (CHDWr) indicates the variability in reticulocyte hemoglobin content.
CHDWr and mean reticulocyte hemoglobin content (CHr) are calculated from the product of the measured reticulocyte volume and hemoglobin concentration.
CHr can be used, along with other reticulocyte indices such as mean reticulocyte corpuscular volume (MCVr) to monitor treatment efficacy for various types of anemia, including sickle cell anemia treated with hydroxyurea, iron-deficiency anemia treated with IV iron, and various types of anemia treated with erythropoietin.
Vitamin A, a group of fat-soluble retinoids, including retinol, retinal, and retinyl esters, is involved in immune function, vision, reproduction, and cellular communication.
Vitamin A is critical for vision and also supports cell growth and differentiation, playing a critical role in the normal formation and maintenance of the heart, lungs, kidneys, and other organs.
Two forms of vitamin A are available in the human diet: preformed vitamin A (retinol and its esterified form, retinyl ester) and provitamin A carotenoids.
Preformed vitamin A is found in foods from animal sources, including dairy products, fish, and meat (especially liver).
The various forms of vitamin A are solubilized into micelles in the intestinal lumen and absorbed by duodenal mucosal cells.
Most of the body's vitamin A is stored in the liver.
Concentrations of preformed vitamin A are highest in liver and fish oils.
Other sources of preformed vitamin A are milk and eggs, which also include some provitamin A. Most dietary provitamin
A comes from leafy green vegetables, orange and yellow vegetables, tomato products, fruits, and some vegetable oils.
Abnormal lipoprotein found in serum of patients with obstructive jaundice.
Presence is a marker of cholestasis
Ercalcidiol, 25-hydroxycalciferol, or 25-hydroxyvitamin D2, is the the product of hydroxylation of Vitamin D2 (ergocalciferol) in the liver.
Vitamin D2 is derived from fungal and plant sources.
Furlan, M, Robles, R, et al.
von Willebrand Factor-Cleaving Protease in Thrombotic Thrombocytopenic Purpura and the Hemolytic-Uremic Syndrome.
New England Journal Medicine.
Homocarnosine, a normal metabolite, is the brain-specific dipeptide of gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) and histidine.
Homocarnosine, rather than carnosine, is the major imidazole dipeptide in human CSF and can be detected in the CSF of normal infants and young children, while either not detectable or present only in small amounts in the CSF of normal adults.
Slightly greater amounts can be found in the CSF of some adults with neurological disorders.
Homocarnosinosis (an inherited disorder), is characterized by an increased level of dipeptide homocarnosine (Hca) in CSF and the brain, and can co-exist with paraplegia, retinitis pigmentosa, and a progressive mental deficiency.
The sensitivity setting is set such that the pacemaker is sure to detect inherent cardiac electrical activity.
The sensitity setting is typically set at a higher sensitivity (a lower value in mV) than the sensitivity threshold.
The ganglionic (alpha3-type) neuronal acetylcholine receptors (AChR) facilitate fast synaptic transmission in sympathetic, parasympathetic, and enteric autonomic ganglia.
Autoantibodies against ganglionic neuronal AChr are present in approximately 50% of patients with autoimmune autonomic ganglionopathy (AAG).
Their clinical features include orthostatic hypotension, gastrointestinal and bladder dysfunction, sicca symptoms, and impaired pupillary light reflex.
Like myasthenia gravis (MG), AAG is an antibody-mediated neurological disorder.
Interleukin-6 (IL-6) is a protein that in humans is encoded by the IL6 gene.
IL-6 is an interleukin that acts as both a pro-inflammatory and anti-inflammatory cytokine.
It is secreted by T cells and macrophages to stimulate immune response to trauma, especially burns or other tissue damage leading to inflammation.
In terms of host response to a foreign pathogen, IL-6 has been shown, in mice, to be required for resistance against the bacterium, Streptococcus pneumoniae.
IL-6 is also a "myokine," a cytokine produced from muscle, and is elevated in response to muscle contraction.
It is significantly elevated with exercise, and precedes the appearance of other cytokines in the circulation.
During exercise, it is thought to act in a hormone-like manner to mobilize extracellular substrates and/or augment substrate delivery.
Additionally, osteoblasts secrete IL-6 to stimulate osteoclast formation.
Smooth muscle cells in the tunica media of many blood vessels also produce IL-6 as a pro-inflammatory cytokine.
IL-6's role as an anti-inflammatory cytokine is mediated through its inhibitory effects on TNF-alpha and IL-1, and activation of IL-1ra and IL-10.
Precursor of fibrinolysin (plasmin).
It is a single-chain beta-globulin of molecular weight 80-90,000 found mostly in association with fibrinogen in plasma; plasminogen activators change it to fibrinolysin.
It is used in wound debriding and has been investigated as a thrombolytic agent.
Methicillin resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA) is a staph infection that is resistant to multiple antibiotics.
MRSA frequently causes skin infections, but can also cause pneumonia and, if untreated, can lead to sepsis.
MRSA is spread when a person comes in contact with an infected wound or by sharing personal items with a person infected with MRSA.
The risk of infection is increased in crowded spaces such as gyms, daycare centers, military bases, and patients being treated as inpatients in medical facilities.
Studies have shown that one in three people are asymptomatic carriers of staph in their nose and that two people in 100 are carriers of MRSA.
To prevent contracting MRSA, maintain good personal hygiene by frequently hand washing and bathing often, especially after exercise.
Keep scrapes and open wounds covered and get medical attention for skin infections.
MRSA infection of the skin may initially resemble a spider bite, but can become red, swollen, painful, warm to the touch, filled with pus, and accompanied by a fever.
Flunisolide (marketed as AeroBid, Nasalide, Nasarel) is a corticosteroid often prescribed as treatment for allergic rhinitis.
The principal mechanism of action of flunisolide is to activate glucocorticoid receptors.
It also has anti-inflammatory action.
Abnormal intracellular inclusions, composed of denatured hemoglobin, found on the membrane of red blood cells.
They are seen in thalassemias, enzymopathies, hemoglobinopathies, and after splenectomy.
Gelatin is widely used in foods, drugs and devices.
It is used in plasma substitutes and in vaccines.
It is also used in photographic emulsions, glues, matches, cosmetics and much more.
Cross-reactivity between gelatin of different animal origin exists Immediate IgE-mediated reactions have been reported, as well as systemic reactions and anaphylaxis.
Allergic reactions after gelatin-containing live vaccines are increasingly reported.
Reports of plasma substitute reactions also express concern for using gelatin-containing products.
Allergic reactions to fruit-gums, marshmallows (8) and "gelatin of any kind" have been reported as well.
Total lung capacity (TLC) is the volume of air in the lungs at maximum inflation.
TLC can be derived as the sum of the vital capacity (VC), the largest volume a patient can exhale after a full inhalation, and residual volume (RV), the volume of air remaining in the lungs after maximum exhalation).
Functional residual capacity (FRC) is the volume of air remaining in the lungs after normal exhalation.
Restrictive lung diseases, such as pulmonary fibrosis and neonatal respiratory distress syndrome, generally lead to a decrease in various lung volumes, while obstructive lung diseases, such as asthma, are associated with preserved total volumes.
However, obstructive disease may be associated with high RV values, which may also be expressed as RV/TLC, which represents RV as a percentage of TLC.
Necrotizing autoimmune myopathy is an inflammatory muscle disease that causes death of muscle cells, resulting in severe arm and leg weakness and fatigue.
The cause of most cases is unknown, although statin medications, connective-tissue disease, and malignancy may increase risk.
An iron-binding protein in plasma and secretions (milk, mucus, bile), secreted by leukocytes.
It is an important component of GRANULOCYTES.
It is bacteriostatic, working by depriving bacteria of iron essential for growth.
Procainamide (INN, trade names Pronestyl®, Procan®, Procanbid®) is a pharmaceutical antiarrhythmic agent used for the medical treatment of cardiac arrhythmias.
It blocks open sodium (Na+) channels and prolongs the cardiac action potential.
This results in slowed conduction, and ultimately the decreased rate of rise of the action potential, which may result in widening of QRS on electrocardiogram (EKG).
This drug is used for both supraventricular and ventricular arrhythmias.
Procainamide is a derivative of procaine, which ahs more action on the CNS.
Fumarylacetoacetate is an intermediate in the metabolism of tyrosine.
It is formed through the conversion of Maleylacetoacetate into Fumarylacetoacetate by the enzyme maleylacetoacetate isomerase.
A large stout-bodied, sometimes anadromous, TROUT found in still and flowing waters of the Pacific coast from southern California to Alaska.
It has a greenish back, a whitish belly, and pink, red, or lavender stripes on the sides, with usually a sprinkling of black dots.
It is highly regarded as a sport and food fish.
Its former name was Salmo gairdneri.
The sea-run rainbow trouts are often called steelheads.
Redband trouts refer to interior populations of rainbows.
Anthoxanthum odoratum, known as sweet vernal grass, holy grass, vanilla grass or buffalo grass, is a short-lived perennial grass found wild in acidic grassland in Eurasia.
It is also grown as a lawn grass and a house plant, due to its sweet scent, and can be also be found on unimproved pastures and meadows.
Heparin is a highly sulfated glycosaminoglycan widely used as an injectable anticoagulant.
It is also used to form an inner anticoagulant surface on various experimental and medical devices such as test tubes and renal dialysis machines.
Pharmaceutical grade heparin is commonly derived from mucosal tissues of slaughtered meat animals such as porcine intestine or bovine lung.
A mitosporic Loculoascomycetes fungal genus including some economically important plant parasites.
Teleomorphs include Mycosphaerella and Venturia.
Penicillium notatum, also known as Penicillium chrysogenum, is a mold commonly found in most homes from which Beta-lactam antibiotics are extracted.
Penicillium is known as the blue-green mold on bread, fruits, and nuts.
It is also used for the production of green and blue mold cheese.
Penicillium grows best in spring and winter, but the mold has no seasonal variation.
It is a well-known group of brushed-shaped microorganisms belonging to the fungimycin family, and has no known sexual state.
16-Alpha hydroxydehydroepiandrosterone (16-alpha-hydroxy-DHEA) is a by-product of dehydroepiandrosterone (DHEA), a "parent" hormone produced by the adrenal glands.
Fluoxetine hydrochloride is an antidepressant drug used medically in the treatment of depression, obsessive-compulsive disorder, bulimia nervosa, premenstrual dysphoric disorder and panic disorder.
Fluoxetine is also used (off-label) to treat many other conditions, such as ADHD.
Fluoxetine was derived from diphenhydramine, an antihistamine found to inhibit reuptake of the neurotransmitter serotonin.
Compared to other popular selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs), fluoxetine has a strong energizing effect.
This makes fluoxetine highly effective in treatment of clinical depression cases where symptoms like depressed mood and lack of energy prevail.
Although stimulating, it is also approved for a variety of anxiety disorders, including panic disorder and obsessive compulsive disorder.
Cytopathic effect (CPE) refers to degenerative changes in cells (especially in tissue culture) associated with the multiplication of certain viruses.
When in tissue culture, the spread of virus is restricted by an overlay of agar (or other suitable substance) and thus the cytopathic effect may lead to formation of plaque.
Thus identification of a viral infection can be made by examining the characteristic cytopathic effect produced on different cell sheets.
This method however is relatively slow and not all viruses will grow on cell sheets.
Hepatitis C virus (HCV) is a small (50 nm in size), enveloped, single-stranded, positive sense RNA virus in the genus hepacivirus, which is in the Flaviviridae family.
More than 170 million people worldwide are affected by hepatitis C, and the majority of patients with acute hepatitis C develop chronic HCV infection, which can result in liver cirrhosis, hepatic failure or hepatocellular carcinoma.
The HCV core protein is a highly basic, RNA-binding protein that forms the viral capsid.
The E1 and E2 envelope glycoproteins are necessary for viral entry and fusion.
Non-structural proteins include NS2, NS3, NS4A and 4B, and NS5A and 5B. The NS2-NS3 complex functions as a protease, and NS3 also has a helicase/NTPase domain.
NS4A is a cofactor of NS3 protease activity.
NS3-NS4A protease is one target of anti-HCV drugs.
NS4B is a membrane anchor for the replication complex, and NS5A plays a role in regulating viral replication.
NS5B is an RNA-dependent RNA polymerase.
Venlafaxine hydrochloride is a prescription antidepressant first introduced by Wyeth in 1993.
It belongs to class of antidepressants called serotonin-norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRI).
As of August 2006, generic venlafaxine is available in the United States.
It was previously available only under the brand names Effexor and Effexor XR.
2-Hydroxycaproic acid is a branched-chain alpha-keto acid that have been reported in normal human blood and in normal amniotic fluid.
It has been found that 2-Hydroxycaproic acid is the most significant metabolite found in the CSF of patients infected with Nocardia.
Nocardia sp. Is an uncommon cause of meningitis, and Nocardia meningitis has a clinical picture similar to that of tuberculous meningitis
The species is distributed throughout Europe, western Asia and North Africa, and has been introduced in western North America, Australia and parts of South America.
Nettle pollen frequently induces asthma, allergic rhinitis and allergic conjunctivitis.
Allergen-specific IgE to Urtica has also been detected due to occupational sensitisation.
Chloromethyl methyl ether is a compound with formula CH3OCH2Cl.
It is a chloroalkyl ether.
It is used as an alkylating agent and industrial solvent to manufacture dodecylbenzyl chloride, water repellents, ion-exchange resins, polymers, and as a chloromethylation reagent.
It is a known human carcinogen.
In organic synthesis, it is used from introducing the methoxymethyl (MOM) protecting group.
An alternative method to prepare a MOM ether is by using dimethoxymethane.
A species of gram-negative, facultatively anaerobic, rod-shaped bacteria normally found in the flora of the mouth and respiratory tract of animals and birds.
It causes shipping fever (see PASTEURELLOSIS, PNEUMONIC); HEMORRHAGIC BACTEREMIA; and intestinal disease in animals.
In humans, disease usually arises from a wound infection following a bite or scratch from domesticated animals.
Rabbits are found on all continents.
Although relatively infrequent, meat allergy can be a serious problem for children both because it is generally associated with intolerance to other protein sources and because of the suggested role of meat in stimulating the gastrointestinal development during weaning.
Short term exposure to high levels of ethyl acetate results first in irritation of the eyes, nose and throat, followed by headache, nausea, vomiting, sleepiness, and unconsciousness.
High concentrations can cause CNS depression and congestion of the liver and kidneys.
Chronic poisoning has been described as producing anemia, leucocytosis (transient increase in the white blood cell count), and cloudy swelling, and fatty degeneration.
Enfuvirtide (T20) is a fusion inhibitor anti-viral medication that binds to the first heptad repeat in the HIV-1gp41 coding region.
Once bound, T20 prevents structural changes to the virus and keeps it from fusing with the cell membrane.(Manual of Clinical Microbiology, 11th edition, James H. Jorgensen; Karen C. Carroll; Guido Funke; Michael A Pfaller; Marie Louise Landry; Sandra S. Richter; David W. Warnock) T20 is very effective when combined with other anti-viral drugs for patients in the early stages of HIV and in patients with resistance to other antiviral drugs.
Butylparaben, also known as butyl par asept or tegosept b, belongs to the class of organic compounds known as p-hydroxybenzoic acid alkyl esters.
These are aromatic compounds containing a benzoic acid, which is esterified with an alkyl group and para-substituted with a hydroxyl group.
Butylparaben displayed the most competitive binding to rat estrogen receptors when tested along with methyl, ethyl, and propylparabens.
Butylparaben is an extremely weak basic (essentially neutral) compound (based on its pKa).
Butylparaben is a very faint and phenolic tasting compound.
Butylparaben is a potentially toxic compound.
However, parabens have not been proven to cause breast cancer.
It has been used in cosmetic products since the 1940s and in pharmaceutical products since 1924.
Pseudomonas aeruginosa is an important opportunistic pathogen that causes severe respiratory infection.
Exotoxin A (toxA) is one of its primary virulence factors, and the presence of RegA, a protein encoded by the regA gene, is essential for P aeruginosa toxA expression.
Identification of the regA gene in clinical specimens can be useful for identifying P aeruginosa as a causative pathogen.
Acetylcholinesterase, an enyzme (AChE) that controls synaptic and neurohumoral cholinergic activity by hydrolyzing the neurotransmitter acetylcholine, is also known as RBC cholinesterase, erythrocyte cholinesterase, or (most formally) acetylcholine acetylhydrolase.
The ACHE gene is mapped to chromosome 7q22.
AChE is found primarily in the blood on red blood cell membranes, in neuromuscular junctions, and in neural synapses.
Two main clinical diagnostic uses are: 1) a second trimester screening test for fetal neural tube defects using amniotic fluid and, 2) in the general population, to detect past exposure to organophosphate insecticides with resultant inhibition of the enzyme using blood.
Cysteine is a naturally occurring, sulfur-containing (sulfhydryl) amino acid which has a thiol group and is found in most proteins, though only in small quantities.
Cysteine is in the same class as methionine.
When it is exposed to air, cysteine oxidizes to form cystine, which is a dimer of two cysteine molecules joined by a weak disulfide bond.
N-acetyl-L-cysteine (NAC) is derived from cysteine and is a popular dietary supplement that is metabolized into the antioxidant glutathione.
Cysteine takes its name from cystine, named after the Greek kustis meaning bladder ˆ' cystine was first isolated from kidney stones.
Because it is a sulfur-based amino acid, cysteine itself can act as an antioxidant in the body.
Cysteine is an important source of sulfur in human metabolism, and although it is classified as a non-essential amino acid, cysteine may be essential for infants, the elderly, and individuals with metabolic disease or who suffer from malabsorption syndromes.
Diethyl ether, also known as ether, is the organic compound with the formula (C2H5)2O.
It is a colorless and highly flammable liquid with a low boiling point and a characteristic odor.
It is the most common member of a class of chemical compounds known generically as ethers.
It is a common solvent and was once used as a general anesthetic.
An individual's physical and/or emotional attraction to another individual of the same gender, opposite gender, or both genders.
Sexual orientation is independent of gender identity and biological sex.
This code is created for a PCR designed to detect campylobacter species associated with diarrhea in humans versus other Campylobacter species.
The probes for this original test amplify a portion of the 16s rRNA gene (16s DNA) and theoretically detects all of the following: C. coli, C. helveticus, C. hyointestinal, C. jejuni, C. lari, C. upsaliensis, C. avium, C. Canadensis, C. cuniculorum, C. insulaenigrae, C. lanienae, C. peloridis, C. subantarcticus, and C. volucris.
The PCR does not detect C. concisus, C. curvus, C. gracilis, C. hominis, C. rectus, C. showae, C. fetus, C. mucosalis, C. sputorum, and C. ureolyticus.
Methylenedioxyamphetamine (MDA), Methylenedioxymethamphetamine (MDMA) and Methylenedioxyethylamphetamine (MDEA) act as serotonin, norepinephrine, and dopamine releasing agents.
They are the drugs ecstasy, eve, etc.
MDA is a metabilite of both MDMA and MDEA.
11-Hydroxy delta-9-tetrahydrocannabinol, abbreviated as 11-OH-THC, is the main active metabolite of THC which is formed in the body after cannabis consumption.
The presence of Smith antibody is specific for systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE), but occurs only in 30-35% of patients with SLE.
The Smith and related nuclear ribonucleoproteins are targets for the autoantibodies developed by patients with SLE.
Information from ARUP Laboratories (2007 10 15) and Jacobs and DeMott Laboratory Test Handbook, 5th edition, DS Jacobs, WR DeMott and DK Oxley, 2001.
Cotton has been grown since the time of ancient Egyptian civilisation, and is a widespread crop in the modern world.
The plant requires mainly a warm climate and abundant water (which is often supplied by irrigation).
Though the fiber is the best known Cotton product, parts of the plant are edible and in common use as foods.
Allergic reactions to cotton seed may occur uncommonly.
These need to be differentiated from adverse reactions to cotton seed dust, which have been described under cotton, crude fibres o1.
The most common exposure to cotton seed may occur in a number of occupational situations, e.g. the handling of the seeds as cattle food, and also the handling of the seeds when sowing.
Microsporum canis is a fungus that infects animals and humans across the globe.
M canis causes dermatophytosis that is also known as ring worm.
Skin lesions are characterized by the presence of circular patches of hair loss that are surrounded by a raised, red outer rim.
The lesions are caused by inflammatory reactions to the fungus.
Though cats and dogs are the natural host for the fungus, humans and other animals can also be infected.
M canis infects hair, nails, or skin which transmit arthrospores to new hosts.
The arthrospores can remain viable for up to 18 months.
Cadmium is a chemical element in the periodic table that has the symbol Cd and atomic number 48.
A relatively rare, soft, bluish-white, toxic transition metal, cadmium occurs with zinc ores and is used largely in batteries.
The CCND1 gene (cyclin D1) is located on chromosome 11q13.
The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the highly conserved cyclin family, whose members are characterized by a dramatic periodicity in protein abundance throughout the cell cycle.
Cyclins function as regulators of CDK kinases.
Different cyclins exhibit distinct expression and degradation patterns which contribute to the temporal coordination of each mitotic event.
This cyclin forms a complex with and functions as a regulatory subunit of CDK4 or CDK6, whose activity is required for cell cycle G1/S transition.
This protein has been shown to interact with tumor suppressor protein Rb and the expression of this gene is regulated positively by Rb.
Mutations, amplification and overexpression of this gene, which alters cell cycle progression, are observed frequently in a variety of tumors and may contribute to tumorigenesis.
Member of the serpin family of proteins.
It inhibits both the tissue-type and urokinase-type plasminogen activators.
The VWF gene (von Willebrand factor) is located on chromosome 12p13.3.
The glycoprotein encoded by this gene functions as both an antihemophilic factor carrier and a platelet-vessel wall mediator in the blood coagulation system.
It is crucial to the hemostasis process.
Mutations in this gene or deficiencies in this protein result in von Willebrand's disease.
An unprocessed pseudogene has been found on chromosome 22.
An opioid made from morphine and used mainly as an analgesic.
It has a shorter duration of action than morphine.
Ketone solvents=acetone, methyl ethyl ketone, methyl isobutyl ketone
Clozapine is a drug used for the treatment of schizophrenia.
It does not produce significant effects to the extrapyramidial nerves like other neuroleptics and is often effective in patients who were previously resistant to other types of schizophrenia medications.
The primary active metabolites of clozapine are norclozapine and clozapine N-oxide.
The average half-life of the N-oxide metabolite in plasma has been observed at 8.6 hours, lower than norclozapine which was observed at 19.2 hours and clozapine at 10.5 hours after which the drugs are excreted in urine via the kidneys.
Papaya trees, which originated in West India, Mexico or Central America, are widely cultivated in tropical and subtropical areas.
There are 2 types of Papaya fruit, Hawaiian and Mexican.
The Hawaiian varieties are the Papayas commonly found in supermarkets.
These pear-shaped fruit generally weigh about half a kilo.
Mexican Papayas are oblong and may weigh up to 5 kilos.
Papaya skin is generally yellow to green.
The flesh is bright orange, yellow or pinkish, depending on variety, and small black seeds cluster in the centre.
A properly ripened Papaya is juicy, sweetish and somewhat like a cantaloupe in flavour.
Anecdotal evidence suggests that Papaya may occasionally induce symptoms of food allergy in sensitised individuals; however, few studies have been reported to date.
Reactions may occur to individual commercially extracted components of Papaya, e.g., Papain or Chymopapain.
Reactions include urticaria, colitis, and anaphylaxis (sometimes to Papain).
Papaya allergy is thought to be mainly due to cross-reactivity to Latex, but may occur on its own.
Isocyanate HDI conjugated to a human serumalbumin (HSA) carrier.
Certain protein allergens and chemicals capable of acting as haptens occur at high concentrations in workplace environments.
They represent a significant sensitization risk also for less atopic individuals due to their often high concentration in the air.
Difenacoum is an anticoagulant of the 4-hydroxycoumarin vitamin K antagonist type.
It has anticoagulant effects and is used commercially as a rodenticide.
Difenacoum is sold as blue-green pellets intended to be ingested by pests such as rats and mice.
Because other species of mammals and birds may prey upon affected rodents, there is a risk of secondary or tertiary exposure.
Using radiolabeled isotopes, difenacoum (and/or its metabolites) has been shown to be distributed across many organ tissues upon oral ingestion, with the highest concentrations occurring in the liver and pancreas.
The synovial membrane is divided into two compartments, the outer layer (subintima) and the inner layer (intima).
The intima is mainly composed of two cell types, specialized macrophage-like synovial cells and fibroblast-like synoviocytes (FLS), which maintain the internal joint homeostasis.
These cells represent the main source of hyaluronic acid and also other glycoproteins, major components of the synovial fluid.
Synovial lining cell hyperplasia is a typical feature of rheumatoid arthritis (RA), and during the progression of this disease constant inflammatory processes take place in the synovial membrane, eventually leading to cartilage damage and joint destruction and deformation.
Due to the changes in proliferative and apoptotic processes the total number of cells increases in the synovium, and significantly increases also the number of fibroblast-like synoviocytes.
These cells, together with other immune cells such as macrophages, lymphocytes, neutrophils, mast cells, dendritic cells and platelets, create an inflammatory environment which attract even more immune cells to the damage area, and thus contribute to the joint destruction
The chromosomal translocation t(12;21)(p13;q22) results in a fused transcript between ETV6-RUNX1 (TEL-AML1) genes and is the most common translocation in B cell childhood acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL), accounting for 25% of childhood ALL.
Molecular and cytogenetic techniques such as real-time PCR and FISH are used to detect the ETV6-RUNX1 fused transcripts.
Phenothiazine (a phenol derivative of thiazine) is a pesticide and industrial chemical used in pharmaceutical manufacturing.
It is sometimes used as an antihelminthic.
It was introduced by DuPont as an insecticide in 1935.
It is now most commonly used as an intermediate chemical in the manufacture of various psychiatric drugs.
Phenothiazine-derivative drugs:The word phenothiazines is used to describe the largest of the five main classes of antipsychotic drugs.
The ammonium (more obscurely: aminium) cation is a positively charged polyatomic cation with the chemical formula NH4+.
It is formed by the protonation of ammonia (NH3).
Ammonium ions are a waste product of the metabolism of animals.
Barley (Hordeum vulgare) is a major food and animal feed crop, a member of the grass family Poaceae.
In 2005, barley ranked fourth in quantity produced and in area of cultivation of cereal crops in the world (560,000 km²).
Its germination time is anywhere from 1-3 days.
Bougainvillea is a genus of flowering plants native to South America from Brazil west to Peru and south to southern Argentina (Chubut Province).
Different authors accept between four and 18 species in the genus.
Peanuts are the seeds of an annual legume, which grows close to the ground and produces its fruit below the soil surface.
This is in contrast to tree nuts like Walnuts and Almonds.
Peanut is a member of the Fabaceae or legume family, whereas tree nuts are not.
The Peanut plant is oval-leafed and about 45 cm tall.
Delicate yellow flowers develop around the lower portion.
The flowers pollinate themselves and then lose their petals as the fertilized ovary begins to enlarge.
The budding ovary or "peg" grows down toward the soil.
The Peanut embryo burrows into the soil surface and begins to mature, taking the form of the Peanut.
Peanut contains up to 32 different proteins, of which at least 18 have been identified as being capable of binding specific IgE. Varieties of Peanuts from different parts of the world contain similar proteins, including Ara h I and Ara h 2, and the IgE-binding properties have also been reported to be similar to a great extent.
Peanuts are a significant cause of serious food allergy in both adults and children.
Unlike other food allergies, Peanut allergy usually begins in childhood and persists throughout the affected individual's lifetime.
Peanut allergic reactions are more likely to be severe or even fatal than reactions to other food allergens.
Atopic dermatitis, angioedema, asthma, diarrhoea, nausea and vomiting, and anaphylaxis have been reported.
Bile acids (BAs) are conjugated to either taurine or glycine.
Various disorders are associated with different BA profiles.
Alcoholic cirrhosis has been associated with extremely high levels of the taurine-conjugated BAs taurocholate, taurochenodeoxycholate, and tauroursodeoxycholate, moderately elevated levels of glycine-conjugated BAs, including glycocholate, glycochenodeoxycholate, and glycoursodeoxycholate, and mild elevation of nonconjugated BAs (cholate, chenodeoxycholate).
Johnson grass (Sorghum halepense) produces pollen which often induces hayfever, asthma and conjunctivitis in sensitized individuals.
It is a grass of the sorghum family.
It is native to the Mediterranean region, but grows throughout Europe and the Middle East.
Introduced to the United States around 1830.
It can now be found in every state except Minnesota, Maine, and Alaska.
It reproduces by rhizomes and seeds.
US Department of Agriculture Kansas Wildflowers and Grasses - Johnson grass page.
Acetaminophen is a drug used to treat minor pain and fever.
When it is combined with other active components, acetaminophen can be used to treat allergy, cough, colds, flu, and insomnia.
Acetaminophen in conjunction with other analgesics is also used to treat moderate to severe pain.
If taken beyond the recommended dosage, acetaminophen can cause significant liver damage.
Combination prescription drugs with more than 325 mg of acetaminophen were prohibited by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) as of March, 2014.
Caffeine is a xanthine alkaloid compound that acts as a stimulant in humans.
Caffeine is sometimes called guaranine when found in guarana, mateine when found in mate, and theine when found in tea.
It is found in the leaves and beans of the coffee plant, in tea, yerba mate, and guarana berries, and in small quantities in cocoa, the kola nut and the Yaupon Holly.
Overall, caffeine is found in the beans, leaves, and fruit of over 60 plants, where it acts as a natural pesticide that paralyzes and kills certain insects feeding upon them.
Caffeine is a central nervous system (CNS) stimulant, having the effect of temporarily warding off drowsiness and restoring alertness.
Beverages containing caffeine, such as coffee, tea, soft drinks and energy drinks enjoy great popularity: caffeine is the world's most widely consumed psychoactive substance.
In North America, 90% of adults consume caffeine daily.
The red snapper, Lutjanus campechanus, is a very tasty reef fish found in the Gulf of Mexico and the southeastern Atlantic coast of the United States.
The original name in Latin American Spanish is Huachinango or Pargo.
Transforming growth factor beta 1 or TGF-β1 is a polypeptide member of the transforming growth factor beta superfamily of cytokines.
It is a secreted protein that performs many cellular functions, including the control of cell growth, cell proliferation, cell differentiation and apoptosis.
In humans, TGF-β1 is encoded by the TGFB1 gene.
TGF-β1 plays an important role in controlling the immune system, and shows different activities on different types of cell, or cells at different developmental stages.
Most immune cells (or leukocytes) secrete TGF-β1
The ATM gene (ATM serine/threonine kinase) is located on chromosome 11q22-q23.
The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the PI3/PI4-kinase family.
This protein is an important cell cycle checkpoint kinase that phosphorylates; thus, it functions as a regulator of a wide variety of downstream proteins, including tumor suppressor proteins p53 and BRCA1, checkpoint kinase CHK2, checkpoint proteins RAD17 and RAD9, and DNA repair protein NBS1.
This protein and the closely related kinase ATR are thought to be master controllers of cell cycle checkpoint signaling pathways that are required for cell response to DNA damage and for genome stability.
Mutations in this gene are associated with ataxia telangiectasia, an autosomal recessive disorder.
Cytochrome P450-2B6 (CYP2B6; ), a member of the cytochrome P450 mixed-function oxidase system, is involved in the metabolism of a number of clinically relevant substrates in current clinical use.
Genetic variations in CYP2B6 can affect the response (i.e., efficacy or toxicity) to drugs metabolized by CYP2B6 and selection of alternative dosing or agents may be necessary in individuals with specific CYP2B6 genetic variations.
ProBNP is the 108 amino acid pro-hormone of BNP (Brain Naturetic Peptide) that is produced mainly in the left ventricle.
The prohormone splits into two polypeptides- the biologically active but shorter BNP (77-108) and the longer N terminal (1-76) fragment called NT-proBNP.
Commercial assays are available for NT-proBNP because of its usefulness in predicting cardiovascular risk.
In one study, it was the single best predictor of survival among patients with the acute coronary syndrome.
It also declines with successful treatment of left ventricular dysfunctionand heart failure and is used by some to track the success of such treatment.
No commercial assays exist for proBNP (the whole peptide)- though the trade name for one companies NT-proBNP is "proBNP" -- a misnomer.
We include proBNP as the a related name for NT-proBNP so that people who call it proBNP will find it in LOINC.
Zinc phosphide (Zn3P2) is an inorganic chemical compound.
Rodenticide-grade zinc phosphide usually comes as a black powder containing 75% of zinc phosphide and 25% of antimony potassium tartrate, an emetic to cause vomiting if the material is accidentally ingested by humans or domestic animals.
However, it is still effective against rats, mice, guinea pigs and rabbits, all of which do not have a vomiting reflex.
The TAT gene (tyrosine aminotransferase) is located on chromosome 16q22.1.
This nuclear gene encodes a mitochondrial protein tyrosine aminotransferase which is present in the liver and catalyzes the conversion of L-tyrosine into p-hydroxyphenylpyruvate.
Mutations in this gene cause tyrosinemia (type II, Richner-Hanhart syndrome), a disorder accompanied by major skin and corneal lesions, with possible mental retardation.
A regulator gene for tyrosine aminotransferase is X-linked.
Tree allergen mix 9 (tx9, TP9) detects Grey alder (T2), Birch (T3), Hazelnut (T4), Oak (T7), and Willow (T12) IgE antibodies.
Testing for IgE antibodies may be used to help diagnose an allergic disease or the cause of an anaphylactic episode in a patient.
Enzyme and fluorescent-based assays, which were preceded by the RAST test (Radio-AllergoSorbent Test), are performed to detect allergen-specific IgE in the patient's serum.
Paraneoplastic neurological syndrome (PNS) is an autoimmune disorder that is manifested by progressive central, peripheral and/or autonomic nervous system symptoms.
The neurological symptoms include encephalitis, autonomic failure, peripheral neuropathy, cerebellar ataxia, visual complaints and more.
The antibodies that attack the neural tissue develop in response to tumor cells.
The neoplasm may or may not be detectable using conventional imaging modalities.
Since PNS can be associated with multiple antibodies testing usually includes a panel of PNS antibodies.
In addition, the different PNS antibodies are associated with certain cancers so the antibody pattern can assist in identifying the specific tumor if it was previously undiagnosed.
Glutamate decarboxylase (GAD) is an enzyme that leads to the creation of the major neurotransmitter gamma-aminobutyrate (GABA).
The initial discovery of GAD antibodies was found in a patient with stiff-person syndrome.
Later, GAD antibodies were identified in many patients with type 1 diabetes.
Patients with chronic cerebellar ataxia, drug-resistant epilepsy and myoclonus have also been found to have GAD antibodies.
GAD has two isoforms, GAD65 and GAD67, which are highly homologous but found in distinct subsets of patients.
GAD65 antibodies are specific to patients with insulin-dependent diabetes.
GAD67 is important to the maturation of perisomatic innervation.
The presence of GAD antibodies in a patient recently diagnosed with diabetes indicates a high risk of requiring insulin within three years.
ZAP-70 is an abbreviation for Zeta-chain-associated protein kinase 70 (70 is the molecular weight in kDa).
The protein is a member in the protein-tyrosine kinase family.
ZAP-70 is normally expressed in T cells and natural killer cells and has a critical role in the initiation of T-cell signaling.
ZAP-70 in B cells is used as a prognostic marker in identifying different forms of chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL).
DNA analysis has distinguished two major types of CLL, with different survival times.
CLL that is positive for the marker ZAP-70 has an average survival of 8 years.
CLL that is negative for ZAP-70 has an average survival of more than 25 years.
Many patients, especially older ones, with slowly progressing disease can be reassured and may not need any treatment in their lifetimes.
In systemic lupus erythematosis, the Zap-70 receptor pathway is missing and Syk takes its place.
ZAP70 deficiency results in a form of immune deficiency.
Chicken is the most common type of poultry in the world, and was one of the first domesticated animals.
Chicken is a major world wide source of meat and eggs for human consumption.
Chicken meat contains about two to three times as much polyunsaturated fat than most types of red meat when measured as weight percentage.
Information obtained by the Canadian Integrated Program for Antimicrobial Resistance (CIPARS) "strongly indicates that cephalosporin resistance in humans is moving in lockstep with use of the drug in poultry production.
According to the Canadian Medical Association Journal, the unapproved antibiotic ceftiofur is routinely injected into eggs in Quebec and Ontario to discourage infection of hatchlings.
Although the data are contested by the industry, antibiotic resistance in humans appears to be directly related to the antibiotic's use in eggs.
Brome grass is a grass species producing pollen, which may induce hayfever, asthma and conjunctivitis in sensitised individuals.
Maple sugar is what remains after the sap of the sugar maple is boiled for longer than is needed to create maple syrup or maple taffy.
Once almost all the water has been boiled off, all that is left is a solid sugar.
By composition, this sugar is about 90% sucrose, the remainder consisting of variable amounts of glucose and fructose.
This is usually sold in pressed blocks or as a translucent candy.
It is difficult to create as the sugar easily burns and thus requires considerable skill.
It was the preferred form of First Nations/Native American peoples as the sugar could easily be transported and lasted a long time.
It was once called 'sinzibukwud'.
It is today used to flavor some maple products and can be used as an alternative to cane sugar.
Maple sugar is about twice as sweet as standard granulated sugar.
Estrone (C 18 H 22 O 2), an estrogenic hormone secreted by the ovary, has a melting point of 254.5 degrees Celsius.
It is one of three estrogens which also include estriol and estradiol.
Estrone is the least prevalent of the three hormones, estradiol being often more prevalent in normal females whereas estriol is prevalent primarily during pregnancy.
Estrone sulfate is important in health and disease beause of its conversion to estrone sulfate, a long-lived derivative of estrone.
Estrone sulfate acts as a pool of estrone which can be converted as needed to the more active estradiol.
Estrone is synthesized from androstenedione, a derivative of progesterone.
The conversion consists of the de-methylation of C-19 and the aromaticity of the 'A' ring.
This reaction is similar to the conversion of testosterone to estradiol.
PCSK9 encodes proprotein convertase subtilisin/kexin type 9, an enzyme which binds to several different LDL, VLDL and apolipoprotein receptors and promotes their degradation.
Mutations in this gene have been associated with a rare form of autosomal dominant familial hypercholesterolemia (HCHOLA3).
Mutations in PCSK9 result in increased enzyme activity, which leads to increased receptor degradation and decreased availability of receptors to bind and transport lipids into the cell.
The end result is an increase in circulating lipid levels.
The genus Ligustrum (Privet) comprises around 20 species, subspecies and varieties.
Seven of these species are native to India, and others to Europe, Asia, and northern Africa.
Privet trees are naturalised in Australia and the eastern half of North America.
They are now used extensively as ornamentals in urban environments.
Privet pollen can induce asthma, allergic rhinitis and allergic conjunctivitis
Myeloperoxidase (MPO) is a peroxidase enzyme most abundantly present in neutrophil granulocytes (a subtype of white blood cells).
It is a lysosomal protein stored in azurophilic granules of the neutrophil.
MPO has a heme pigment, which causes its green color in secretions rich in neutrophils, such as pus and some forms of mucus.
Micrococcus sp are gram-positive, oxidase-positive, and strictly aerobic cocci that generally form pairs, tetrads or clusters.
This varied genera includes the species M. luteus, M. lylae, M. antarcticus, M. endophyticus, M. flavus, M. terreus, and M. yunnanensis.
They are commensal organisms on human skin, but are also found in dairy products and diverse environmental samples.
When grown in a specimen, they are generally considered to be contaminants, but have proven to be opportunistic pathogens causing bacteremia, endocarditis, meningitis and other infections in immunocompromised patients .
A macrolide antibiotic produced by Streptomyces ambofaciens.
The drug is effective against gram-positive aerobic pathogens, N. gonorrhoeae, and staphylococci.
It is used to treat infections caused by bacteria and Toxoplasma gondii.
Rearrangements involving the ROS1 gene region (6q22) are detected in 1-2% of non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) cases.
Patients with locally advanced or metastatic NSCLC that is positive for the 6q22 (ROS1) rearrangement have been shown to respond to treatment with ALK/MET tyrosine kinase inhibitors, such as crizotinib.
Autosomal dominant nocturnal frontal lobe epilepsy (ADNFLE) is a rare epileptic disorder that causes frequent violent seizures during sleep.
These seizures often involve complex motor movements, such as hand clenching, arm raising/lowering, and knee bending.
Vocalizations such as shouting, moaning, or crying are also common.
ADNFLE is often misdiagnosed as nightmares.
Attacks often occur in clusters and typically first manifest in childhood.
There are four known loci for ADNFLE, three with known causative genes.
These genes encode various nicotinic acetylcholine receptor α and β subunits CHRNA4, CHRNB2, and CHRNA2.
Paroxsmal nocturnal hemoglobinuria (PNH) is a condition that causes hemolytic anemia, bone marrow failure, and a proclivity to develop thrombosis.
PNH occurs when the PIG-A gene of bone marrow stem cells undergoes mutation.
Stems cells develop into erythrocytes (RBCs), white blood cells (WBCs), platelets, and mature cells that contain the PIG-A gene mutation, and as a result, lack a sufficient number of glycosylphosphatidylinositol-anchored protein (GPI-AP).
The GPI-APs have various roles, some of which are to help to prevent RBC destruction, fight infection, and promote thrombosis.
CD14, 16, 24, and 59 are GPI-linked proteins that are used as markers for the presence of GPI, as is fluorescent aerolysin (FLAER), which binds to GPI-APs.
Patients with PNH lack sufficient GPIs and therefore have reduced expression of these cell markers and FLAER compared to patients without PNH.
Patients with complete loss of CD59 are more likely to have hemolysis compared to patients with partial loss of CD59.
Biopterin is a coenzyme that is produced within the body.
It is an oxidized degradation product of tetrahydrobiopterin.
Defects in biopterin synthesis or regeneration can cause a form of hyperphenylalaninemia (a disease with symptoms similar to PKU) that is associated with a decrease in urine biopterin and a relative increase in urine neopterin.
Biopterin is synthesized in several parts of the body, including the pineal gland.
Biopterin deficiency has been associated with a variety of disorders, including dystonia and rabies.
Dermatophytes include three types of fungi that commonly cause skin disease in animals and humans: Microsporum, Epidermophyton and Trichophyton.
There are about 40 species in these three genera.
Dermatophytes cause infections of the skin, hair and nails, including ringworm, tinea, and onychomycosis, due to their ability to obtain nutrients from keratinized material.
Immuno-compromised patients are predisposed to chronic or recurrent dermatophyte infections.
The chitin synthase 1 (csh1) gene is conserved among dermatophytes and used for general detection of the fungi in specimen by PCR.
The CTNNB1 gene (catenin (cadherin-associated protein), beta 1, 88kDa) is located on chromosome 3p21.
The protein encoded by this gene is part of a complex of proteins that constitute adherens junctions (AJs).
AJs are necessary for the creation and maintenance of epithelial cell layers by regulating cell growth and adhesion between cells.
The encoded protein also anchors the actin cytoskeleton and may be responsible for transmitting the contact inhibition signal that causes cells to stop dividing once the epithelial sheet is complete.
Finally, this protein binds to the product of the APC gene, which is mutated in adenomatous polyposis of the colon.
Mutations in this gene are a cause of colorectal cancer (CRC), pilomatrixoma (PTR), medulloblastoma (MDB), and ovarian cancer.
Three transcript variants encoding the same protein have been found for this gene.
Ceftibuten is a third-generation cephalosporin antibiotic.
It is an orally-administered agent, with 2 dosage forms, capsule or oral suspension.
It is marketed by Shionogi USA under the trade name Cedax.
It is active against Haemophilus influenzae, Moraxella catarrhalis, Escherichia coli (K. pneumoniae, K. oxytoca), Proteus vulgaris, P. mirabils, P. providence, Salmonella sp., Shigella sp., Enterobacter sp. and Streptococcus sp.
An anti-inflammatory agent with analgesic and antipyretic properties.
Both the acid and its sodium salt are used in the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis and other rheumatic or musculoskeletal disorders, dysmenorrhea, and acute gout.
Teriflunomide (previously A77 1726) is the active metabolite of leflunomide.
Like leflunomide, it is used for rheumatoid arthritis.
Porcine hemagglutinating encephalomyelitis virus (PHEV) is a coronavirus found only in pigs.
It has a single antigenic type and can be grown in a number of different porcine cultures.
PHEV is ubiquitous and occurs in North and South America, Australia, and Asia.
PHEV is found in most breeding herds of swine, where infection is typically asymptomatic and a herd immunity exists.
PHEV spreads in secretions and multiplies in the nasal mucosa, tonsils, lungs, and to a lesser extent, the small intestine.
PHEV enters nuclei of the medulla oblongata and then moves to the peripheral nervous system where it spreads to the brain and brain stem.
Vomiting and wasting disease (VWD) leads to dehydration, cyanosis, coma and death.
Both wasting and vomiting are seen primarily in pigs less than 4 weeks old.
The encephalomyelitic form of PHEV infection starts with vomiting which is not severe, then moves to muscle tremors and hyperesthesia.
Those symptoms are followed by blindness, opisthotonos, and nystagmus.
Finally, the disease culminates into dyspnea, coma and death.
Both forms of disease have mortality rates close to 100% in piglets under 4 weeks of age.
Diagnosis of PHEV can be made when the virus is isolated from the brain or brain stem of euthanized pigs within 2 days of the onset of symptoms.
Assays to detect viral antigens and nucleic acids have recently been developed.
There is no treatment available.
It is advised to maintain the virus on the farm in order to preserve a natural immunity in the sows and to avoid outbreaks in the piglets.
No known infections of humans have been reported, but a potential for infection of humans with PHEV poses a potential threat.
Veterinary Medicine: Apramycin (also Nebramycin II) is an aminoglycoside antibiotic used in veterinary medicine.
The volume of gas inhaled into the lungs in one minute.
The SEPT9 gene (septin 9) is located on chromosome 17q25.
This gene is a member of the septin family involved in cytokinesis and cell cycle control.
This gene is a candidate for the ovarian tumor suppressor gene.
Mutations in this gene cause hereditary neuralgic amyotrophy, also known as neuritis with brachial predilection.
A chromosomal translocation involving this gene on chromosome 17 and the MLL gene on chromosome 11 results in acute myelomonocytic leukemia.
Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been described.
The total number of days that the patient had a fever.
Isobutyrylglycine is an acyl glycine.
Acyl glycines are normally minor metabolites of fatty acids.
However, the excretion of certain acyl glycines is increased in several inborn errors of metabolism.
In certain cases the measurement of these metabolites in body fluids can be used to diagnose disorders associated with mitochondrial fatty acid beta-oxidation.
Acyl glycines are produced through the action of glycine N-acyltransferase which is an enzyme that catalyzes the chemical reaction: acyl-CoA + glycine < -- > CoA + N-acylglycine Isobutyrylglycine is identified in large amount in urine of patients with isobutyryl-CoA dehydrogenase deficiency.
Isobutyryl-CoA dehydrogenase deficiency is a disorder caused by the deficiency of isobutyryl-CoA dehydrogenase that is involved in the catabolism of the branched-chain amino acid valine .
Broad hyaline casts are hyaline casts that are wider than ordinary hyaline casts.
Eslicarbazepine (ESL) is an anti-seizure medication that is used to treat partial-onset seizures.
It works by inactivating voltage-gated sodium channels, similar to carbamazepine and oxcarbazepine, and is better tolerated.
ESL therapy has been shown to improve brain power spectral activity and enhance cortical connectivity.
Human Granulocytic Ehrlichiosis (HGE) is an illness caused by a rickettsial bacteria transmitted by deer and dog ticks to humans.
With HGE, also known as Human Granulocytic Anaplasmosis (HGA), neutrophils become infected by Anaplasma phagocytophilum and clusters of small bacteria may be seen within the neutrophils on blood smears during the terminal phases of the infection.
Patients may exhibit fever, headache, malaise, myalgia, no skin rash, decreased WBC and platelet count and mild liver injury may also occur be present.
Infect Dis.2005;11(12);2005 Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
Mevalonolactone is a substance obtained by the dehydration of mevalonic acid and is rapidly converted back into mevalonic acid in water.
Mevaolonic acid exists in equilibrium with mevalolactone, which is formed by internal condensation of mevalonic acid's terminal alcohol and carboxylic acid functional groups.
Mevalonic acid is a key intermediate in the biosynthesis of terpenes and steroids.
Mevalonolactone is known ot inhibit HMG-CoA reductase activity.
A species of COLTIVIRUS transmitted by the tick DERMACENTOR andersonii and causing fever, chills, aching head and limbs, and often vomiting.
It occurs in the northwestern United States, except the Pacific Coast.
Nitrobenzene is an organic compound with the chemical formula C6H5NO2.
Nitrobenzene is a water-insoluble pale yellow oil with an almond-like odor.
It freezes to give greenish-yellow crystals.
Although occasionally used as a flavoring or perfume additive, nitrobenzene is highly toxic in large quantities and is mainly produced as a precursor to aniline.
In the laboratory, it is occasionally used as a solvent, especially for electrophilic reagents.
Linoleic acid (LA) is an unsaturated omega-6 fatty acid.
It is a colorless liquid at room temperature.
In physiological literature, it is called 18:2(n-6).
Chemically, linoleic acid is a carboxylic acid with an 18-carbon chain and two cis double bonds; the first double bond is located at the sixth carbon from the omega end.
Linoleic acid is one of two essential fatty acids that humans and other animals must ingest for good health because the body requires them for various biological processes, but can not synthesize them from other food components.
In enzymology, an alanine-glyoxylate transaminase is an enzyme that catalyzes the chemical reaction L-alanine + glyoxylate to pyruvate + glycine.
Thus, the two substrates of this enzyme are L-alanine and glyoxylate, whereas its two products are pyruvate and glycine
Iodide is the ionic form (+2) of iodine, and is found in several products such as eye drops and antiseptics used in surgery, but is not a common suicide or homicide agent.
Most poisonings are accidental.
The Horse chestnut tree is native to Europe and particularly common in the Balkans (northern Greece and Albania), and has become naturalised in Britain.
It is now cultivated throughout temperate zones, including Mexico, Turkey and the USA.
Anecdotal evidence suggests that asthma, allergic rhinitis and allergic conjunctivitis are possible following exposure to pollen from this tree; however, few specific studies have been reported to date.
APC Resistance is a ratio of aPTT with APC to aPTT without APC.
A MOLYBDENUM requiring enzyme that catalyzes the terminal reaction in the oxidative degradation of SULFUR AMINO ACIDS with the formation of a sulfate.
A deficiency of sulfite oxidase results in sulfocysteinuria.
This is the active form of VITAMIN B 6 serving as a coenzyme for synthesis of amino acids, neurotransmitters (serotonin, norepinephrine), sphingolipids, aminolevulinic acid.
During transamination of amino acids, pyridoxal phosphate is transiently converted into pyridoxamine phosphate (PYRIDOXAMINE).
The Achromobacter are a genus of bacteria, included in the order Burkholderiales.
The cells are straight rods and are motile.
They are strictly aerobic and are found in water (freshwater and marine) and soils.
Histamine is derived from the decarboxylation of histidine.
Histamine is then either stored or rapidly inactivated by acetaldehyde dehydrogenase.
Deficiency of acetaldehyde dehydrogenase triggers an allergic reaction as the histamine then builds up.
Most histamine is stored in mast cells or basophils in the body.
IgE is bound to the surface of these cells and interacts with allergens to degranulate and release histamine when exposed to the appropriate antigen.
Bicarbonate is an electrolyte and typically measured along with other electrolytes (e.g. sodium, potassium, and chloride) to detect, evaluate, and monitor electrolyte imbalances.
Low bicarbonate levels may occur in patients with Addison's disease, chronic diarrhea, diabetic ketoacidosis, and kidney disease.
Increased levels may be seen in patients with severe vomiting, cushing syndrome, and metabolic alkalosis.
Various drugs may also increase or decrease biocarbonate levels.
Bicarbonate and total CO2 are not synonyms.
Total CO2 = bicarbonate + CO2 + carbonic acid.
Under normal circumstances, bicarbonate is the primary constituent of total CO2, however, in certain pathologic conditions, CO2 and/or carbonic acid contribute a clinically significant fraction of the total.
Coenzyme Q cytochrome c reductase, also called the cytochrome bc1 complex or Complex III, is the third complex in the electron transport chain and plays a critical role in biochemical generation of ATP (oxidative phosphorylation).
Complex III is a multisubunit transmembrane protein encoded by both the mitochondrial (cytochrome b) and the nuclear genomes (all other subunits).
Mutations in Complex III cause exercise intolerance as well as multisystem disorders.
The activity level of Complex III is measured as part of mitochondrial and metabolic testing to assess neurodegenerative diseases.
Disorders of sensory or speech functioning.
Immature basophils are large mononuclear cells with or without an indented nucleus, coarsely clumped chromatin structure, and no nucleoli.
High levels of immature basophils are seen in various leukemias, including acute myelogenous leukemia (AML) and acute basophilic leukemia (ABL).
A mold (mould outside of US) is a fungus that grows in the form of multicellular filaments called hyphae.
This is contrast to yeast which is a fungus that can adopt a single-celled growth habit.
Molds (Mold) are a large and taxonomically diverse number of fungal species in which the growth of hyphae results in discoloration and a fuzzy appearance.
The network of these tubular branching hyphae, called a mycelium, is considered a single organism.
Titanium tetrachloride is the inorganic compound with the formula TiCl4.
It is an important intermediate in the production of titanium metal and the pigment titanium dioxide.
TiCl4 is an unusual example of a metal halide that is highly volatile.
Upon contact with humid air, it forms spectacular opaque clouds of titanium dioxide (TiO2) and hydrogen chloride (HCl).
An alterntive IUPAC name is tetrachlorotitanium.
Acadesine (INN) (5-aminoimidazole-4-carboxamide-1-beta-4-ribofuranoside, AICA-riboside) is an AMP-activated protein kinase activator which is used for the treatment of acute lymphoblastic leukemia and may have applications in treating other disorders such as diabetes
Clostridium perfringens is a gram positive, anaerobic, rod-shaped bacterium.
It is classified into five types designated A through E. Four toxins are produced by C. perfringens that have lethal, necrotic and cytotoxic capabilities.
The four toxins are known as alpha-toxin, beta-toxin, epsilon-toxin and iota-toxin.
Beta2-toxin is encoded by the cpb2 gene.
There is not very much data about the significance of the Clostridium perfringens beta2-toxin plays in disease pathogenesis.
There has been evidence that beta2-toxin is associated with enteric disease in domestic animals, especially pigs and dogs.
A notable correlation with piglets with enteritis and the presence of cpb2 has been observed.
Beta2-toxin is encoded by the cpb2 gene.
Chromosome 6q23 deletion, which involves the MYB gene, is associated with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL), acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL), B-cell small lymphocytic lymphoma, non-Hodgkin lymphoma, and multiple myeloma.
Approximately 5% of patients with CLL were found to have the 6q23 deletion.
Deletion of the MYB gene may play a role in tumorigenesis since it is involved in transcriptional repression.
Anaplastic lymphoma kinase (ALK) also known as ALK tyrosine kinase receptor or CD246 (cluster of differentiation 246) is an enzyme that in humans is encoded by the ALK gene.
The ALK gene can be oncogenic in two ways - first, by forming a fusion gene with any of several other genes, and second, with mutations of the actual DNA code for the gene itself.
The 2;5 chromosomal translocation is associated with approximately 60% anaplastic large-cell lymphomas (ALCLs).
The translocation creates a fusion gene consisting of the ALK (anaplastic lymphoma kinase) gene and the nucleophosmin (NPM) gene: the 3' half of ALK, derived from chromosome 2, is fused to the 5' portion of NPM from chromosome 5.
The product of the NPM-ALK fusion gene is oncogenic.
The EML4-ALK fusion gene is responsible for approximately 3-5% of non-small-cell lung cancer(NSCLC).
The vast majority of cases are adenocarcinomas.
The standard test used to detect this gene in tumor samples is fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH), but other techniques such as immunohistochemistry (IHC) and reverse-transcriptase PCR (RT-PCR) can also be used to detect lung cancers with an ALK gene fusion.
ALK lung cancers are found in patients of all ages, although on average these patients may be somewhat younger.
ALK lung cancers are more common in never or light cigarette smokers, but a significant number of patients with this disease are current or former cigarette smokers.
Recent study shows that mutation of ALK "are linked to 10-15% of "neuroblastoma", a deadly childhood form of cancer.
Pinus palustris, commonly known as the Longleaf Pine, is a pine native to the southeastern United States, found along the coastal plain from eastern Texas to southeast Virginia extending into northern and central Florida.
A generic term for fats and lipoids, the alcohol-ether-soluble constituents of protoplasm, which are insoluble in water.
They comprise the fats, fatty oils, essential oils, waxes, phospholipids, glycolipids, sulfolipids, aminolipids, chromolipids (lipochromes), and fatty acids.
(Grant & Hackh's Chemical Dictionary, 5th ed)
Methyprylon (Noludar) is a sedative of the piperidinedione derivative family .This medicine was used for treating insomnia, but is now rarely used as it has been replaced by newer drugs with fewer side effects, such as benzodiazepines
Activation of basophilic granulocytes with anti-IgE and the expression of the CD63 antigen on the cell surface allows identification of an allergy.
Basophiles, along with mast cells, are considered to be the key cells in allergic diseases.
Hypersensitivity reactions are caused by an initial systemic histamine release by activated basophiles and mast cells, which may lead to shock with laryngeal edema, lower-airway obstruction and hypotension.
The index method for this test establishes the basophil population by use of low SSC (side scatter) and a human chemokine receptor CCR3 marker.
The degree of nuclear pleomorphism (variability of nuclei) in breast carcinoma is one component of the Nottingham histologic grade (NHG), which is a prognostic indicator for patients with breast carcinoma.
The two other components of the NHG are tubule formation and mitotic activity.
Increasing degrees of pleomorphism are associated with increasingly aggressive cancers, with scores assigned as follows: 1 = no pleomorphism 2 = moderate pleomorphism 3 = extensive pleomorphism
DNA test to examine the presentce of maternal cells contaminating a fetal sample.
A conscious sedation procedure note is a clinical note written for moderate sedation and analgesia before, during, and after procedures.
The American College of Emergency Physicians (ACEP) refers to procedural sedation as "a technique of administering sedatives or dissociative agents with or without analgesics to induce a state that allows the patient to tolerate unpleasant procedures while maintaining cardiorespiratory function.
Procedural sedation and analgesia is intended to result in a depressed level of consciousness that allows the patient to maintain oxygenation and airway control independently.
The pre-catheterization diagnosis represents the diagnosis for which the procedure is being performed.
The pre-catheterization diagnosis may be based on a combination of patient symptoms, physical exam findings, and results of previous procedures such lab tests and EKG.
Found on Activated T-cells, B-cells, NK-cells and Monocytes Adult T-cell leukemia/lymphoma Associated with Hairy cell leukemia; some T and B-cell lymphomas, including large cell anaplastic lymphomas; Reed-Sternberg cells
Tricyclic antidepressants get their name from their three ringed molecular structure.
The primary use of tricyclic antidepressants is to treat depression as well as neuralgic pain, chronic pain, and migraine prophylaxis.
In children, tricyclic antidepressants are used to treat enuresis, obsessive-compulsive disorder, attention deficit hyperactivity disorder, school phobia, and separation anxiety.
These drugs are are taken orally and are absorbed by the liver and then excreted through the kidneys.
Tricyclic antidepressants block the absorption of neurotransmitters at nerve terminals, which makes the neurotransmitters more available in the brain.
Histidine is one of the 20 naturally occuring amino acids.
The imidazole side chains and the relatively neutral pK of histidine (ca 6.0) mean that relatively small shifts in cellular pH will change its charge.
For this reason, this amino acid side chain is used as a co-ordinating ligand in metalloproteins, and as a catalytic site in certain enzymes.
The imidazole side chain has two nitrogens with different properties: One is bound to hydrogen and donates its lone pair to the aromatic ring and as such is slighty acidic, whereas the other one donates only one electron to the ring so it has a free lone pair and is basic.
Streptococcus pyogenes, also known as Group A Streptococcus (GAS), is a species of gram-positive, coccoid, beta-hemolytic bacteria.
It is responsible for a wide variety of both invasive and non-invasive diseases including scarlet fever, pharyngitis, impetigo, cellulitis, necrotizing fasciitis and toxic shock syndrome, as well as the sequelae of rheumatic fever and acute poststreptococcal glomerulonephritis.
Invasive GAS infections can be associated with very high mortality rates.
Green Coffee bean may frequently result in sensitisation and symptoms of asthma, allergic rhinitis and allergic conjunctivitis in workers involved in the Coffee processing industry.
Occupational asthma may less commonly occur as a result of exposure to roasted Coffee bean.
Contact allergy to Green Coffee bean dust has been described.
HPV type 35 has been associated with low grade cervical abnormalities, cancer precursors, and anogenital cancers.
Pyridoxal phosphate is a derivative of Vitamin B6 and is used by enzymes in all organisms.
The majority of enzymes which depend on pyridoxal phosphate are associated with pathways involving amino acids, such as amino group transfer, decarboxylation and other important biochemical processes.
When measuring AST and/or ALT without pyridoxal-5-phosphate (P-5-P), the rate of the decrease of NADH is directly proportional to the AST/ALT (respectively)-activity in the specimen.
Testing for AST and/or ALT with the addition of P-5-P stabilizes the transaminases in the specimen and avoids falsely low values in specimens of patients suffering from either myocardial infarction or liver disease, who have an insufficient amount of P-5-P in their blood.
A rare, metallic element designated by the symbol, Ga, atomic number 31, and atomic weight 69.72.
Most Fox species belong to the Red Fox group, genus Vulpes.
Direct or indirect contact with animal allergens frequently causes sensitisation.
Animal allergens may be major contributors to allergy in occupational settings, e.g., furriers' premises.
The serum-pericardial fluid effusion glucose gradient is measured as part a differential diagnosis of exudates and transudates and to rule out bacterial pericarditis.
La Crosse virus is a mosquito-borne virus causing encephalitis in the United States at higher rates than bacterial meningitis.
The disease is recurrent during warm seasons in the Mid-West and mid-Atlantic whose hardwood trees provide breeding sites for the mosquito species Aedes triseriatus.
Testing for La Crosse virus should be perfomed on young patients with symptoms of encephalitis in these two parts of the United States during the summer and fall.
Recombinant non-glycosylated protein produced in an E. coli strain carrying a cloned cDNA encoding Betula verrucosa allergen Bet v 1
The major allergen of birch tree pollen is Bet v 1.
Recombinant Bet v 1 was among the first allergen-encoding cDNAs isolated and has significant sequence homology to a group of pathogenesis-related plant proteins and has been classified as a PR-10 protein.
Orexins, also known as hypocretins, are neurotransmitters produced by a small group of neurons in the hypothalamus that play an important role sleep regulation.
Reduced hypocretin-1 levels are common in patients with narcolepsy with cataplexy.
Doravirine is a non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitor (NNRTI) developed to treat drug-resistant HIV.
Compared to second-generation NNRTI drugs that target drug-resistant HIV-1 mutants that are currently on the market (etravirine and rilpivirine), it has better antiviral activity in treatment-naive patients as well as a better safety profile.
Despite its efficacy in treating resistant strains of HIV-1, it is not as effective in treating the wild type strain of HIV.
Phenytoin-free levels detect the level of non-protein-bound phenytoin in the blood.
It is used to measure therapeutic and toxic levels of the drug.
Providencia rettgeri is a urease-producing gram-negative bacteria in the Enterobacteriaceae family that is often found in water, soil, and animal reservoirs.
It is often the cause of significant opportunistic infections among hospitalized patients and elderly residents in nursing homes associated with long-term indwelling urinary catheter use leading to UTIs.
It is very resistant to antibiotics.
The COL2A1 gene (collagen, type II, alpha 1) is located on chromosome 12q13.11.
This gene encodes the alpha-1 chain of type II collagen, a fibrillar collagen found in cartilage and the vitreous humor of the eye.
Mutations in this gene are associated with achondrogenesis, chondrodysplasia, early onset familial osteoarthritis, SED congenita, Langer-Saldino achondrogenesis, Kniest dysplasia, Stickler syndrome type I, and spondyloepimetaphyseal dysplasia Strudwick type.
In addition, defects in processing chondrocalcin, a calcium binding protein that is the C-propeptide of this collagen molecule, are also associated with chondrodysplasia.
There are two transcripts identified for this gene.
Donepezil (also misspelled donezepil), marketed under the trade name Aricept is a centrally acting reversible acetylcholinesterase inhibitor.
Its main therapeutic use is in the treatment of Alzheimer's disease where it is used to increase cortical acetylcholine
Leptospira interrogans serovar Celledoni is an uncommon serovar found in some coastal areas of Australia.
Rainforest animals such as bandicoots and rats are the main carriers, and the organism has also been isolated from dairy cattle.
Probable sources of infection include contact with soil, water or other materials contaminated with the urine of an infected animal.
Celledoni is one of the less common leptospiral serovars in Australia.
Haemophilus ducreyi is a fastidious gram-negative coccobacillus causing the sexually transmitted disease chancroid, a major cause of genital ulceration in developing countries characterized by painful sores on the genitalia.
Chancroid starts as an erythematous papular lesion that breaks down into a painful bleeding ulcer with a necrotic base and ragged edge.
Brain natriuretic peptide (BNP) is an active fragment (1-32) of ProBNP which is produced by myocardial cells.
It increases in both right-sided and left-sided heart failure as well as in systolic and diastolic heart failure.
Thus, it is used to diagnose and manage heart failure.
When a patient is taking recombinant PBN (Natricor), BNP will reflect serum levels.
NT-ProBNP, an inactive fragment (1-78) of ProBNP is used to assess the degree of failure.
Both of these polypeptides have roughly the same predictive power.
NT-ProBNP is commonly called ProBNP.
The superior-posterior angle formed by the Nasion-Pogonion line and the mandibular line (Gonion to constructed Gnathion)
Pentane is an organic compound with the formula C5H12 - that is, an alkane with five carbon atoms.
The term may refer to any of three structural isomers, or to a mixture of them: in the IUPAC nomenclature, however, pentane means exclusively the n-pentane isomer; the other two being called "methylbutane" and "dimethylpropane".
Pentanes are components of some fuels and are employed as specialty solvents in the laboratory.
Their properties are very similar to those of butanes and hexanes.
A spice, which may result in allergy symptoms in sensitised individuals.
Cardamom, a member of the Ginger family, is one of the world's very ancient spices, known to the ancient Egyptians, Greeks and Romans.
It is native to the East, originating in the forests of the Western Ghats in southern India, where it grows wild.
Today it also grows in Sri Lanka, Guatemala, Indochina and Tanzania.
Anecdotal evidence suggests that Cardamom may induce symptoms of food allergy in sensitised individuals; however, few studies have been reported to date.
The NIPA1 gene (non imprinted in Prader-Willi/Angelman syndrome 1) is located on chromosome 15q11.2.
This gene encodes a magnesium transporter that associates with early endosomes and the cell surface in a variety of neuronal and epithelial cells.
This protein may play a role in nervous system development and maintenance.
Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
Mutations in this gene have been associated with autosomal dominant spastic paraplegia 6.
C. difficile is an opportunistic anaerobic bacterium that grows in the intestine when the normal flora has been altered by antibiotic treatment.
Patients develop gastrointestinal problems ranging from mild diarrhea to severe pseudomembranous colitis.
Many cases of the milder forms of gastrointestinal illness and most cases of pseuomembranous colitis are caused by toxigenic strains of Clostridium difficile.
Toxigenic strains of the organisim carry the genes encoding the toxins while non-toxigenic strains do not carry the toxin genes.
The diseases result from the toxins that the toxigenic organism produces.
The clinical symptoms associated with the disease are primarily due to Toxin A, which is a tissue-damaging enterotoxin.
A second toxin, Toxin B, referred to as the cytotoxin of the organism, is also produced; this is the toxin detected by the tissue culture assay currently used by many laboratories.
C. difficile strains produce both toxins or only Toxin B.
The glutamate dehydrogenase of C. difficile is a good antigen marker for the organism in feces because it is produced in high amounts by all strains, toxigenic or non-toxigenic.
A positive result confirms the presence of this organism in a fecal specimen; a negative result indicates absence of the organism.
Information from Inverness Medical Diagnositics.
In fresh serum, the Beta-globulin region is often split.
The samller B-2 fraction mainly contains lipoproteins.
With specimen degradation, the Beta-2 band becomes diminished and may not longer be visible, particularly with samples older than 3 days.
Decreased levels may be associated with hypo-B-lipoproteinemias.
A TETRACYCLINE analog isolated from the actinomycete STREPTOMYCES rimosus and used in a wide variety of clinical conditions.
The GLA gene is located on chromosome Xq22.1 and encodes alpha-galactosidase A, a lysosomal enzyme involved in the metabolism of glycosphingolipids.
GLA mutations cause Fabry disease, an X-linked disorder characterized by progressive renal failure, cardiac disease, cerebrovascular disease, small-fiber peripheral neuropathy, and skin lesions.
Canine herpesvirus (CHV) is a virus of the family Herpesviridae which most importantly causes a fatal hemorrhagic disease in puppies (and in wild Canidae) less than two to three weeks old
Magnolia grandiflora, commonly known as the Southern magnolia or bull bay, is a tree of the family Magnoliaceae native to the southeastern United States, from coastal Virginia south to central Florida, and west to eastern Texas and Arkansas.
Ojo-Amaize, EA Lymphocyte Mitogen Stimulation.
Lymphocyte mitogen stimulation assays are used for in vitro assessment of cellular immunity in patients with immunodeficiency, autoimmunity, infectious diseases, cancer and chemical-induced hypersensitivity reactions.
Lymphocytes from healthy human subjects have receptors for mitogens such as the plant lectin concanavalin A (UCon A), pokeweed mitogen (PWM), the protein A component of Staphylococcus aureus Cowan strain I (SpA) and chemicals.
Lymphocytes respond to these mitogens (substances that stimulate large numbers of lymphocytes without prior sensitization and in contrast to antigens do not require a sensitized host).
Both B cells and T cells can be stimulated with mitogens.
Inability of lymphocytes to respond to mitogens is a sign of impaired cell-mediated or humoral immunity.
There is a good correlation between CD4+ T-cell subset numbers and mitogenic response to PWM at different disease states in patients with HIV infection.
-thymidine uptake is the gold standard for measuring lymphocyte mitogen stimulation.
However, a newer and more practical method utilizing supravital stains shows a good correlation with -thymidine uptake.
Flow cytometry was also recently applied to analyze proliferation of cultured cells in response to stimulation with mitogen.
Plazomicin is an aminoglycoside with activity against gram negative bacilli including those with extended spectum beta lactamase (ESBL), and Klebsiella pneumoniae carbapenemase (KPC).
The FGF23 gene (fibroblast growth factor 23) is located on chromosome 12p13.3.
This gene encodes a member of the fibroblast growth factor family of proteins, which possess broad mitogenic and cell survival activities and are involved in a variety of biological processes.
The product of this gene regulates phosphate homeostasis and transport in the kidney.
The full-length, functional protein may be deactivated via cleavage into N-terminal and C-terminal chains.
Mutation of this cleavage site causes autosomal dominant hypophosphatemic rickets (ADHR).
Mutations in this gene are also associated with hyperphosphatemic familial tumoral calcinosis (HFTC).
Hexokinase 3 also known as HK3 is an enzyme which in humans is encoded by the HK2 gene
FCGR3B (Fc fragment of IgG, low affinity IIIb, receptor), also known as CD16b (Cluster of Differentiation 16b), is a human gene.
Phosphoglycerate mutase (PGM) is an enzyme that catalyzes step 8 of glycolysis.
It catalyzes the internal transfer of a phosphate group from C-3 to C-2 which results in the conversion of 3-phosphoglycerate (3PG) to 2-phosphoglycerate (2PG) through a 2,3-bisphosphoglycerate intermediate.
In humans, deficiency in phosphoglycerate mutase function presents as a metabolic myopathy and is one of the many forms of syndromes formerly referred to as muscular dystrophy.
Dysfunction in the activity of phosphoglycerate mutase is an autosomal recessive genetic disorder with symptoms ranging from mild to moderate, is not thought life-threatening and can be managed with changes in lifestyle.
Onset is generally noted as childhood to early adult though some who may be mildy affected by the disorder may not know they have it.
The symptoms are an intolerance to physical exertion or activity, cramps and muscle pain.
Uncommonly, myoglobinuria may be present.
Permanent weakness is rare.
The disease is not progressive and has an excellent prognosis.
Certain protein allergens and chemicals capable of acting as haptens occur at high concentrations in workplace environments.
They represent a significant sensitization risk.
Clostridium botulinum is a bacterium that produces the toxin botulin, the causative agent in botulism.
It is included in the genus Clostridium, a major group of Gram-positive forms.
C. botulinum was first recognized and isolated in 1896 by Emile van Ermengem and is commonly found in soil.
These rod-shaped organisms grow best in low-oxygen conditions.
They form spores that allow them to survive in a dormant state until exposed to conditions that can support their growth.
Subtypes:Each of the seven subtypes of C. botulinum produces a different botulin toxin.
These are labeled with letters and are called A to G types.
Types C and D are not human pathogens.
A mouse protection test determines the type of C. botulinum present using monoclonal antibodies.
In the United States, outbreaks are primarily due to types A or B, which are found in soil, or type E, which is found in fish.
Optimum temperature for types A and B is 35-40° C. Minimum pH is 4.6.
A plant genus of the family LAMIACEAE that is the source of peppermint oil.
CD10+/CD19+ is a component of the leukemia screen and is useful in the evaluation of coexpression of markers in acute leukemia and evaluation of minimal residual disease (MRD) after chemotherapy of bone marrow transplantation.
Mixing studies are tests performed on blood plasma used to distinguish factor deficiencies from factor inhibitors, such as lupus anticoagulants, or specific factor inhibitors, such as antibodies directed against factor VIII).
If the result obtained with the immediate normal plasma mixture corrects to within the reference range, a factor deficiency or specific factor inhibitor is suspected.
No correction after addition of normal plasma suggests an immediately acting nonspecific inhibitor such as lupus anticoagulant (or heparin).
After incubation, an aPTT result equivalent to that of the original mixture is indicative of a factor deficiency, whereas initial correction, but prolongation after incubation suggests a time-dependent inhibitor such as a specific factor VIII inhibitor.
Mixing studies sometimes need to be interpreted in the context of specific reagents used (such as lupus-sensitive reagents).
A species of Bordetella isolated from the respiratory tracts of turkeys and other birds.
It causes a highly contagious bordetellosis.
Cultivated in many parts of the world, this firm, medium-sized bean has a dark red skin and cream-colored flesh.
Its popularity can be attributed to its full-bodied flavour.
There are many named varieties of the plant, ranging from dwarf forms about 30 cm tall to climbing forms up to 3 m tall.
The seeds of older Green bean pods are known as Red kidney beans, especially when they are dark red.
White kidney beans, also referred to as Cannellini beans, do not have the robust flavour of the Red kidney bean.
Red kidney bean does not commonly induce symptoms of food allergy in sensitised individuals, but as with other legumes, allergic reactions are possible
AB-FUBINACA oxobutanoic acid is a metabolite of AB-FUBINACA (N--1--1H-indazole-3-carboxamide), an indazole-based synthetic cannabinoid that shows high affinity for the cannabinoid CB1 receptor.
The drug was first developed by Pfizer in 2009 as an analgesic medication and later identified as a recreational drug.
Synthetic cannabinoids interact with the same brain receptors as THC (the active drug present in marijuana) and have been demonstrated to produce similar effects.
The drug is typically sprayed on botanical material and smoked, although it can be ingested in liquid or powder form.
Products containing this drug are sold under a wide variety of names including (but not limited to)
Spice, Potpourri, Smoke, K2, Zombie, Kush, and Cloud 10.
Hydroxylurasidone is a metabolite of Lurasidone.
Lurasidone is an atypical antipsychotic and also used for the treatment of depressive episodes associated with bipolar I disorder (bipolar depression) in adults when used alone or in combination with lithium or valproate.
Mushroom toxicity occurs due to ingestion of poisonous mushrooms.
The main toxic actions are caused by amanitins, which occur in the extremely poisonous toadstools such as Amanita phalloides (death cap), Amanita verna (white death cap), Amanita virosa (destroying angel) and other Amanita species.
These species of mushrooms are responsible for the most severe cases of mushroom toxicity and a very high mortality rate.
Ninety-five percent of fatal cases worldwide are due to the Amanitin phalloides syndrome.
Urinalysis is performed for the diagnosis and management of mushroom poisoning.
The toxins are detected in urine samples within 6 - 60 hours after ingestion.
Vanadium is an essential metallic element present in the environment in low levels and often used to manufacture steel.
Studies have shown that it is essential for mammalian growth and reproduction.
There is a low risk of suffering from a deficiency in vanadium; however, vanadium toxicity can occur and in some cases at fairly low intake levels.
Vanadium is a recognized occupation hazard and exposure primarily occurs via inhalation or ingestion.
Alfentanil is a short-acting opioid anesthetic and analgesic derivative of FENTANYL.
It produces an early peak analgesic effect and fast recovery of consciousness.
Alfentanil is effective as an anesthetic during surgery, for supplementation of analgesia during surgical procedures, and as an analgesic for critically ill patients.
An occupational allergen, which may result in allergy symptoms in sensitised individuals.
Hexahydrophthalic anhydride (HHPA) belongs to a group of organic compounds called acid anhydrides.
In component epoxy resins, they serve as hardeners, which bind covalently to 2 molecules, allowing polymerisation.
They are widely used in the production and processing of plastics, paints and fine chemicals, and in the manufacture of electrical machines
False ragweed is a weed species that capable of inducing hayfever, asthma, and conjunctivitis in sensitive patients.
False ragweed grows over most of the continental United States and is a major source of pollen allergy.
False ragweed belongs to the family Asteraceae and some cross-reactivity may occur among members of the family.
Temocillin is a β-lactamase resistant penicillin, marketed as Negaban primarily for the treatment of multiresistant Gram negative bacteria.
It is a carboxypenicillin.
3-Hydroxyisovaleric acid is a normal human metabolite excreted in the urine.
Elevated levels of this compound are found in several inherited disorders such as Dihydrolipoamide dehydrogenase Deficiency, 3-Methylcrotonyl-CoA carboxylase 1 deficiency, 3-Hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl-CoA lyase deficiency (3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl -CoA lyase Deficiency, Biotinidase deficiency multiple carboxylase deficiency late-onset, Late onset multiple carboxylase deficiency, HolMcarboxylase synthetase deficiency, 3-Methylcrotonyl-CoA carboxylase 2 deficiency.
3-Hydroxyisovaleric acid is also elevated in smokers, in subjects undergoing long-term anticonvulsant therapy with carbamazepine and/or phenytoin.
These levels are elevated due to impairment of renal reclamation of biotin.
Levels may also be increased from prolonged consumption of raw egg-whites, ,, ,, ,, ,, ,
Desoxymethyltestosterone (Madol) is an anabolic steroid.
It was one of the first "designer steroids" to be marketed as a performance-enhancing drug to athletes and bodybuilders.
In animal studies it has been found to bind to the androgen receptor about as half as strongly as dihydrotestosterone, and caused side effects that are typical of 17α-alkylated steroids, such as liver damage when taken in higher dosages and left ventricular hypertrophy.
Docosahexaenoate (DHA) is one of the essential polyunsaturated omega-3 fatty acids that is primarily obtained by ingesting fatty fish including salmon, mackerel, tuna, herring, and sardines.
There are many benefits derived from eating healthy levels of DHA including a reduction of chronic inflammation, atherosclerosis, hypertension, arthritis, depression, adult-onset diabetes mellitus, myocardial infarction, thrombosis, and some cancers.
DHA is important in brain development of infants and in maintaining normal brain function in adults.
Studies have demonstrated that infants who drink DHA-fortified formula have higher visual acuity than infants who drink unfortified formula.
Deficiencies of DHA have been associated with fetal alcohol syndrome, attention deficit hyperactivity disorder, cystic fibrosis, phenylketonuria, unipolar depression, aggressive hostility, adrenoleukodystrophy, cognitive decline in aging individuals, and the onset of sporadic Alzheimer's disease.
Patients who consume 200 mg/day of DHA have a 50% reduction in the incidence of sudden cardiac arrest.
A selective blocker of DOPAMINE D2 RECEPTORS and SEROTONIN 5-HT2 RECEPTORS that acts as an atypical antipsychotic agent.
It has been shown to improve both positive and negative symptoms in the treatment of SCHIZOPHRENIA.
Interleukin-8 (IL-8) is a chemokine produced by macrophages and other cell types such as epithelial cells.
It is also synthesized by endothelial cells, which store IL-8 in their storage vesicles, the Weibel-Palade bodies.
In humans, the interleukin-8 protein is encoded by the IL8 gene.
Interleukin-8 is often associated with inflammation.
As an example, it has been cited as a proinflammatory mediator in gingivitis and psoriasis.
The fact that Interleukin-8 secretion is increased by oxidant stress and conversely, Interleukin-8, by causing recruitment of inflammatory cells induces a further increase in oxidant stress mediators, makes it a key parameter in localized inflammation.
If a pregnant mother has high levels of interleukin-8, there is an increased risk of schizophrenia in her offspring.
High levels of Interleukin 8 have been shown to reduce the likelihood of positive responses to antipsychotic medication in schizophrenia.
Pinus elliottii, commonly known as the Slash Pine, is a pine native to the southeastern United States, from southern South Carolina west to southeastern Louisiana, and south to the Florida Keys
An alkaloid derived from the bark of the cinchona tree.
It is used as an antimalarial drug, and is the active ingredient in extracts of the cinchona that have been used for that purpose since before 1633.
Quinine is also a mild antipyretic and analgesic and has been used in common cold preparations for that purpose.
It was used commonly and as a bitter and flavoring agent, and is still useful for the treatment of babesiosis.
Quinine is also useful in some muscular disorders, especially nocturnal leg cramps and myotonia congenita, because of its direct effects on muscle membrane and sodium channels.
The mechanisms of its antimalarial effects are not well understood.
Interleukin-1 (IL-1) refers to a group of three polypeptides (interleukin-1 alpha (IL-1α), interleukin-1 beta (IL-1ß) and interleukin-1 receptor antagonist (IL-1Ra)), that play a central role in the regulation of immune and inflammatory responses.
Phosphatidylinositol 3,4,5-trisphosphate 3-phosphatase and dual-specificity protein phosphatase PTEN, also known as phosphate and tensin homolog or PTEN protein, is encoded by the PTEN gene on chromosome10q23.31.
PTEN protein has multiple functions, including protein phosphatase and lipid phosphatase activity.
The lipid phosphatase function is critical for its role as a tumor suppressor and modulating cell cycle progression and cell survival.
It also plays a role in correct neuron positioning, dendritic development and synapse formation, and may be a negative regulator of insulin signaling and glucose metabolism in adipose tissue.
Mutations in the PTEN gene are associated with multiple disorders, including PTEN hamartoma tumor syndromes, which include Cowden syndrome and Lhermitte-Duclos disease, squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck, endometrial carcinoma, prostate cancer, and VACTERL with hydrocephalus.
Loss of the PTEN gene can be determined by various techniques, including FISH, and loss of the PTEN protein can be detected by immunohistochemistry techniques.
The number of times that a patient is incontinent of stool.
4-Hydroxycyclohexylacetic acid is an organic acid and tyrosine metabolite.
It is found in the urine of patients with a defect in the enzyme 4-hydroxyphenylpyruvate dioxygenase, an inborn error of metabolism
Glucuronidases are glycoside hydrolases that cleave glucuronic acid glycosides (glucuronides).
Human glucuronidase is a lysosomal glycosidase, and hydrolyzes the glucuronide groups from proteins.
Glucuronidase exhibits both endo-glycosidase and exo-glycosidase activities, meaning that it can cleave monosaccharides from the middle of a chain or from the end.
Glycosylation is an interesting phenomenon that occurs in the endoplasmic reticulum (where carbohydrates are added to arginine groups via a process called N-linked glycosylation) and in the Golgi apparatus (where carbohydrates are added to serinethreonine groups via a process called O-linked glycosylation).
This process is required for the appropriate folding of most proteins.
Errors in glycosylation prevent many proteins from functioning properly.
Glucuronidase fits well into the lysosome's role as a recycling center for the cell.
Hemochromatosis (HFE) gene mutation tested by PCR amplification of a portion of the HLA-H gene followed by restriction digestion with the enzyme Rsa I.
The assay was used to detect the G845A (Cys282Tyr) mutation associated with hereditary hemochromatosis.
A salicylate derivative and anti-inflammatory analgesic with actions and side effects similar to those of ASPIRIN.
The "Seizure Disorder Action Plan" is a communication tool medical providers use to inform school staff of a patient's seizure disorder, treatment protocol and recommended response to seizures.
School staff uses this information to guide and authorize their treatment of the child's seizure disorder while at school.
The following information is included in the action plan: 1.
Patient information: demographics, parent/guardian names, primary care provider/clinic name, current date, 2.
Seizure Information and Signs/Symptoms (check boxes and free text): seizure type, medication, post-seizure (if need to leave classroom, student's response and return to classroom process); specifics of child's seizure condition (age onset, triggers, length/frequency, if status epilepticus history, aura, loss consciousness, etc), 3.
Response recommendations: list of basic and emergency first aid actions to take in response to child's seizure activity, 4.
Treatment Protocol during school hours: medication orders (type medication, dosage amount and time, special instructions and special considerations/precautions free text), and 5.
Acknowledgment: medical provider and parent/guardian signatures and dates authorizing administration of medications and exchange of information/communication with school staff and provider6.
Seizure Observation Record: table to use by school staff to track student seizure activity at school (demographics, date/time, length, pre-seizure, consciousness, injuries, seizure signs/symptoms, post seizure observation, if parent/guardians and/or emergency medical staff called and name of observer).
The CNGB3 gene (cyclic nucleotide gated channel beta 3) is located on chromosome 8q21.3.
This gene encodes the beta subunit of a cyclic nucleotide-gated ion channel.
The encoded beta subunit appears to play a role in modulation of channel function in cone photoreceptors.
This heterotetrameric channel is necessary for sensory transduction, and mutations in this gene have been associated with achromatopsia 3, progressive cone dystrophy, and juvenile macular degeneration, also known as Stargardt Disease.
The KCNC3 gene (potassium channel, voltage gated Shaw related subfamily C, member 3) is located on chromosome 19q13.33.
The Shaker gene family of Drosophila encodes components of voltage-gated potassium channels and is comprised of four subfamilies.
Based on sequence similarity, this gene is similar to one of these subfamilies, namely the Shaw subfamily.
The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the delayed rectifier class of channel proteins and is an integral membrane protein that mediates the voltage-dependent potassium ion permeability of excitable membranes.
Alternate splicing results in several transcript variants.
Foveal thickness is the thickness of the retina at the fovea, which is the part of the retina where the visual resolution is usually the best.
Protein catabolic rates can be used to estimate protein intake in dialysis patients and determine if dietary protein consumption is appropriate.
Protein catabolic rate (PCR) is calculated using the urea-nitrogen appearance rate (UNA).
Special consideration including, dietary monitoring of caloric and protein intake, should be given to patients with low protein catabolic rates.
A plant alkaloid with alpha-2-adrenergic blocking activity.
Yohimbine has been used as a mydriatic and in the treatment of impotence.
It is also alleged to be an aphrodisiac.
Colorless rectangular plates with notched corners (always observed with fat), associated with chyluria, UTI, or nephrotic syndrome.
Koontz A. Clinical Significance of Formed Elements in Urine.
A genus of gram-negative, facultatively anaerobic, rod-shaped bacteria that ferments sugar without gas production.
Its organisms are intestinal pathogens of man and other primates and cause bacillary dysentery (DYSENTERY, BACILLARY).
Arylsulfatase A (or cerebroside-sulfatase) is an enzyme which breaks down cerebroside 3-sulfate.
A deficiency is associated with metachromatic leukodystrophy.
Somatic mutations located in exon 9 of the CLAR gene are found in a about 65-85% of patients with myeloproliferative neoplasms, including essential thrombocythemia (ET) and primary myelofibrosis (PMF), and with nonmutated JAK2 and MPL genes.
The clinical course for patients with CLAR mutations are associated with longer risk of thrombosis and longer overall survival compared to patients with JAK2 mutations.
Over 160 unique mutations have been found in the CALR gene.
A fatty acid of exogenous (primarily ruminant) origin.
Many "odd" length long chain amino acids are derived from the consumption of dairy fats (milk and meat).
Pentadecanoic acid constitutes 1.05% of milk fat and 0.43% of ruminant meat fat.
The content of heptadecanoic acid in the subcutaneous adipose tissue of humans appears to be a good biological marker of long-term milk fat intake in free-living individuals in populations with high consumption of dairy products. ; .
A cardioselective beta-adrenergic blocker possessing properties and potency similar to PROPRANOLOL, but without a negative inotropic effect.
The Interleukins belong to the family termed cytokines.
They are peptides used by immune and inflammatory cells to communicate and control cell operations.
The cytokines have some similar actions to the Growth Factors but Growth Factors regulate proliferation of non-immune cells.
Interleukin 5 is a 50,000-60,000 molecular weight glycoprotein originally called T Cell Replacing Factor.
It is released primarily by activated T Cells.
Its primary target cells are B cells and eosinophils.
Interleukin 5 activates B cell differentiation.
Its actions are similar to Interleukin 3.
Interleukin 5 primes basophils for agonist-induced generation of Leukotriene C4.
It is stimulated by Interleukin 2.
Interleukin 5 stimulates growth and differentiation of eosinophil progenitor without influencing cells committed to neutrophils, basophils, or monocytes.
It enhances responsiveness of eosinophils inducing polarization, shape change, chemotaxis, cytotoxity, oxygen radical release and prolongs survival.
Base excess refers to the amount of a strong acid required to bring back the blood pH to the normal value of 7.4.
The term and concept were first introduced by Astrup and Siggaard-Andersen in 1958 as a way to measure the metabolic component of an acid-base disturbance.
Actual versus standard: In vivo, acid-base homeostasis takes place throughout the extracellular fluid (ECF), not just the blood compartment that is in a patient specimen.
The concept of "standard" base excess attempts to adjust for the base excess of the entire extracellular compartment by calculating the base excess for blood diluted as if the entire extracellular compartment were sampled (approx Hgb of 5g/l).
So the ACTUAL base excess (ABE) is the dose of acid to return PLASMA to normal pH, whereas the STANDARD base excess (SBE) is the dose to return ECF to normal pH. Adjusting for oxygen saturation: Base excess normally assumes 100% oxygen saturation, which is valid for many arterial specimens.
However, it is possible to add additional terms to the calculation which account for the actual oxygen saturation of the patient sample.
The terms in LOINC indicating 'Base excess.100% oxygenated' are intended to encode base excess terms adjusted for oxygen saturation (i.e. do not assume 100% oxygenation).
Satratoxin-H, a trichothecene mycotoxin, is a naturally occurring mold byproduct of Stachybotrys chartarum which is toxic to humans and animals.
The clinical condition it causes is known as Stachybotrotoxicosis.
It is related to the mycotoxin T-2, but unlike T-2 has not been reported to have been used as a biological weapon.
Elevated methylcitric acid levels are indicative of an underlying metabolic disorder such as methylmalonic acidemia (MMA) and propionic acidemia (PA).
Cryoprecipitate, also called "Cryoprecipitated Antihemophilic Factor", "Cryoprecipitated AHF", and most commonly just "cryo", is a frozen blood product prepared from plasma.
It is often transfused as a four to six unit pool instead of as a single product.
The hearing threshold measurement panel includes results for the individual measurements reported on an audiogram.
A typical audiogram includes independent measurements of the lowest intensity level at which a sound can be heard at a series of frequencies for each ear.
Intensity is proportional to sound pressure and is related to the perception of loudness, while frequency is related to the perception of pitch.
Thresholds are assessed in both the air conduction and bone conduction ranges, which are 250-8000 Hz and 250-4000 Hz, respectively.
N-acetylgalactosamine-6-sulfatase (GLANS or GalN6S) is a lysosomal enzyme that removes 6-sulfate groups from a terminal N-acetylgalactosamine-6-sulfate in mucopolysaccharides such as keratan sulfate and chondroitin-6-sulfate.
Loss of activity of this enzyme results in an accumulation of substrates and leads to mucopolysaccharidosis IV A (MPS IV A), an autosomal recessive lysosomal storage disease.
Gram-negative rods widely distributed in LIZARDS and SNAKES, and implicated in enteric, bone (BONE DISEASES), and joint infections (JOINT DISEASES) in humans.
Perimeter is the measurement of any boundary.
Measurements of the area and perimeter of fetal cross-sections have been found to establish both an accurate estimation of birthweight and an early diagnosis and differentiation of the various types of abnormal fetal growth patterns.
For example, abdominal perimeter measurements are an effective predictor of discordant twins where the weight difference between the two exceeds 15%.
Establishments that process blood products are regulated by the FDA need to register with FDA.
The information in the blood establishment registration electronic file includes the address, contact information, and types of blood processed at the establishment.
FDA will use that information for various purposes including for inspectors when they visit the site.
For sites that do not require to register with the FDA, an exemption notification will be sent to the FDA from the establishment.
2-Amino-4-hydroxypteridine (pterin) is a heterocyclic compound composed of a pteridine ring system, with a keto group and an amino group on positions 4 and 2 respectively.
Pterins, as a group, are compounds that are derivatives of the basic pterin structure.
The rs7997012 (c.614-2211T>C) variant is located in intron 2 of the HTR2A gene and codes for the 5-HT2A serotonin receptor.
The variant has been identified as a marker of citalopram response.
Patients with depression who are genotype AA are associated with increased likelihood of response when treated with citalopram as compared to genotype GG.
Insulin-Like Growth Factor II is a 7.5 kDa, 67 amino acid peptide which is thought to mediate some of the actions of growth hormone (GH).
It is used as an adjunct to IGF-1 in the clinical evaluation of growth hormone-related disorders.
2-Methyl,3-Hydroxybutyric acid (HMBA) is involved in isoleucine catabolism and beta-oxidation of fatty acids and ketogenesis.
HMBA is excreted in abnormally high amounts in beta-ketothiolase deficiency.
Ureidopropionic acid is an intermediate in the metabolism of uracil.
More specifically it is a breakdown product of dihydrouracil and is produced by the enzyme dihydropyrimidase.
It is further decomposed to beta-alanine via the enzyme beta-ureidopropionase.
Ureidopropionic acid is essentially a urea derivative of beta-alanine.
High levels of Ureidopropionic acid are found in individuals with beta-ureidopropionase (UP) deficiency.
Enzyme deficiencies in pyrimidine metabolism are associated with a risk for severe toxicity against the antineoplastic agent 5-fluorouracil.
A branched-chain essential amino acid that stimulates activity and promotes muscle growth and tissue repair.
It is a precursor in the penicillin biosynthetic pathway.
Peptide PHI (or peptide histidine isoleucine) is a peptide which functions as a hormone.
It plays a role in the regulation of prolactin in humans
The Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus (MERS-CoV), also termed NCV-2012, EMC/2012 or SARS-like virus, is a Betacoronavirus, a novel coronavirus (nCoV).
Coronaviruses commonly cause respiratory illnesses, including the common cold, but the MERS-CoV is more lethal.
The first MERS-CoV case was reported in September 2012 in the Middle East.
Testing is currently (2013) restricted to patients exhibiting the clinical symptoms of MERS-CoV infection and having the epidemiological risk factors.
Several highly sensitive, confirmatory real-time RT-PCR assays exist for rapid identification of MERS-CoV from patient samples (such as bronchoalveolar lavage or sputum).
Targets include upE (targets elements upstream of the E gene), 1A (targets the ORF1a gene) and nucleocapsid protein genes (specific to MERS-CoV).
The mitochondrial ribosomal protein L40 (MRPL40) gene is located on the long arm (q) of chromosome 22 at position 11.2.
Mitochondrial ribosomes have a small 28S subunit and large 39S subunit.
The MRPL40 encodes a component of the 39S subunit protein.
Deletions in this gene are thought to contribute to velo-cardio-facial syndrome and DiGeorge syndrome.
Risk evaluation and mitigation strategies (REMS) document type -Indexing for Shared System REMS to reference multiple companies' REMS SPL files.
Mead acid is an omega-9 fatty acid.
Like some other omega-9 polyunsaturated fatty acids animals can make Mead acid de novo.
Its elevated presence in the blood is an indication of essential fatty acid deficiency.
Mead acid is found in large quantities in cartilage.
This gene encodes a protein with src homology domain 3 (SH3) patterns.
Mutations in NPHP1 gene cause familial juvenile nephronophthisis
Trypsin is a serine proteases found in the digestive system, where it breaks down proteins.
It is used for numerous biotechnological processes.
Red Pepper (capsicum annuum), aka pimentos exist in mild and pungent varieties and are eaten accordingly, as a vegetable or as a condiment.
Ripe, red berries of the fleshy, long-fruited varieties are dried before being ground into powder to make paprika.
Other cultivars bear large, short-fruited square berries with rounded edges; these are eaten as vegetables.
The Interleukins belong to the family termed cytokines.
They are peptides used by immune and inflammatory cells to communicate and control cell operations.
The cytokines have some similar actions to the Growth Factors but Growth Factors regulate proliferation of non-immune cells.
Toxic, volatile, flammable liquid hydrocarbon byproduct of coal distillation.
It is used as an industrial solvent in paints, varnishes, lacquer thinners, gasoline, etc.
Benzene causes central nervous system damage acutely and bone marrow damage chronically and is carcinogenic.
It was formerly used as parasiticide.
The TMEM216 (transmembrane protein 216) gene is located on chromosome 11q13.1.
This locus encodes a transmembrane domain-containing protein.
Mutations at this locus have been associated with Meckel-Gruber Syndrome Type 2, and Joubert Syndrome 2, also known as Cerebello-oculorenal Syndrome 2.
Egg donation is the process by which a woman provides one or several eggs (ova, oocytes) for purposes of assisted reproduction or biomedical research.
For assisted reproduction purposes, egg donation involves the process of in vitro fertilization as the eggs are fertilized in the laboratory.
After the eggs have been obtained, the role of the egg donor is complete.
Egg donation is part of the process of third party reproduction.
The intron 1 inversion (Inv1) mutation in the F8 gene accounts for approximately 5% of severe hemophilia A (HA) cases in males.
This inversion is typically not identified in patients with mild or moderate HA.
When the Inv1 mutation is identified in a family, at-risk females may be tested to determine their hemophilia A carrier status.
Histamine H1 antagonist used in ALLERGIC RHINITIS; ASTHMA; and URTICARIA.
It is a component of COUGH and COLD medicines.
It may cause drowsiness.
Streptococcus dysgalactiae is a species of Streptococcus known to cause mastitis in cows, ewes and goat does and polyarthritis in lambs.
The presumed setting where the patient was exposed to the illness.
Triclopyr is a systemic, foliar herbicide in the pyridine group.
It is used to control broadleaf weeds while leaving grasses and conifers unaffected.
Interferon alfa (INN, or HuIFN-alpha-Le, trade name Multiferon) is a natural interferon alpha (IFN-α) which is obtained from the leukocyte fraction of human blood following induction with Sendai virus.
Interferon alfa contains several naturally occurring IFN-α subtypes and is purified by affinity chromatography.
The group of drugs called cannabinoids includes both the cannabinoid chemicals found in the cannabis plant as well as synthetic and pharmaceutical cannabinoids.
The cannabinoids in cannabis include tetrahydrocannabinol (THC), cannabidiol (CBD), and cannabinol (CBN).
THC is responsible for the psychoactive effects of cannabis and binds to the CB1 and CB2 cannabinoid receptors.
CBD does not have psychoactive effects but rather has a variety of therapeutic properties including anticonvulsant, analgesic, anti-anxiety, and antiemetic.
The THC to CBD ratio determines the physiologic effects of the drug.
A high THC/CBD ratio results in euphoric and anxiolytic effects, while a low THC/CBD ratio results in sedative effects.
Both natural and synthetic cannabinoid compounds are used for therapeutic purposes.
Synthetic cannabinoids, like THC, act on the CB1 and CB2 receptors.
Adverse reactions, including psychosis, confusion, agitation, tachycardia, myocardial infarction, seizures, and fatal overdoses, are more common with synthetic cannabinoids compared to cannabis.
CD11c, also known as Integrin, alpha X (complement component 3 receptor 4 subunit) (ITGAX), is a human gene.
This gene encodes the integrin alpha X chain protein.
Integrins are heterodimeric integral membrane proteins composed of an alpha chain and a beta chain.
This protein combines with the beta 2 chain (ITGB2) to form a leukocyte-specific integrin referred to as inactivated-C3b (iC3b) receptor 4 (CR4).
The alpha X beta 2 complex seems to overlap the properties of the alpha M beta 2 integrin in the adherence of neutrophils and monocytes to stimulated endothelium cells, and in the phagocytosis of complement coated particles.
CD11c is a type I transmembrane protein found at high levels on most human dendritic cells, but also on monocytes, macrophages, neutrophils, and some B cells that induces cellular activation and helps trigger neutrophil respiratory burst; expressed in hairy cell leukemias, acute nonlymphocytic leukemias, and some B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemias.
Recombinant Prunus avium (rPru av) 3 is a lipid transfer protein (LTP) isolated from cherry.
It is used to evaluate specific IgE reactivity in patients with suspected cherry allergy.
It may be tested along with other cherry LTPs to provide information on the sensitization to individual component proteins of the cherry allergen.
A broad spectrum antimycotic with some action against Gram positive bacteria.
It is used topically in dermatomycoses also orally and parenterally.
An abnormal or compensatory head posture occurs when the head is deviated out of the normal primary straight head position in order to minimize symptoms due to an ocular or non-ocular problem.
Abnormal head positions can include chin up or down, head tilt to the right or left, face turns to the right or left, or a combination of any of these.
Ocular causes of abnormal head posture include: 1) eye misalignment or strabismus, in which the patient finds the head position that will best align vision and/or relieve eye strain; 2) nystagmus, in which different head positions may slow down nystagmus and allow better vision; 3) ptosis, in which the chin is typically elevated to help the eye or eyes see "beneath" the droopy eyelid, and 4) refractive errors, in which turning the head to one side may allow the patient to see better since they are looking through the narrowed opening of the eyelids, which simulates a "squinting" mechanism.
The Bartlett score measures the quality of sputum specimens for microbiology testing.
The score is derived from a microscopic exam of sputum specimens that looks at; 1) the number of neutrophils per low power field, 2) the presence of mucus strands, and 3) the number of squamous epithelial cells per low power field.
Segmented neutrophils and mucus strands may be indicative of inflammation, thus a high quality sputum specimens.
High numbers of epithelial cells are not indicative of inflammation and might indicate contamination with saliva.
A score of 1,2, or 3 indicates active inflammation.
A score of 0 or less indicates a lack of inflammation or contamination with saliva.
<10 score = 0; 10-25 score = +1; >25 score = +2; Mucus present score = +1 Epithelial cells/LPF: 10-25 score = -1; >25 score = -2
Chromosome region Yp11.3 contains the SRY gene, which codes for the sex-determining region Y protein.
The SRY protein is a transcription factor that initiates male sexual development.
Translocation of the SRY gene to the X chromosome causes 46, XX males.
The fetus carrying the SRY gene on an X chromosome will develop male characteristics despite not having a Y chromosome.
Deletion or mutations in the SRY gene leads to 46, XY females with either normal female external genitalia or ambiguous genitalia.
Patient's with Turner syndrome (45, X) may also be tested to determine if Y chromosome material, including the SRY gene, is present.
Increases in phosphoethanolamine levels may indicate possible inhibition of choline and acetylcholine synthesis due to impaired methionine metabolism involving methylation by S-adenosylmethionine (SAM).
Information from Metamatrix Clinical Laboratory 2006 12 01.
Lidocaine or lignocaine is a common local anesthetic and antiarrhythmic drug.
The most commonly encountered lidocaine preparations are marketed by AstraZeneca under the brand names Xylocaine and Xylocard, though lidocaine is also found in many other proprietary preparations.
Desipramine is a tricyclic antidepressant (TCA) that inhibits the reuptake of norepinephrine.
It is sold under the brand names Norpramin ® and Pertofrane ®.
It is used to treat depression, but not considered a first line treatment since the introduction of SSRI antidepressants.
Desipramine is an active metabolite of imipramine.
Along with other tricyclics, desipramine has found use in treating neuropathic pain.
The mechanism of action seems to involve the activation, through norepinephrine reuptake inhibition, of descending pathways in the spinal cord that block pain signals from ascending to the brain.
Desipramine is one of the most potent and selective medications in this respect.
Some evidence suggests that desipramine may help with ADD.
See also:antidepressant tricyclic antidepressant External links:Desipramine - medicinenet.comDesipramine - medlineplus.
Patient agreement document contain statements to help patients understand their role and responsibilities regarding their treatment (e.g., how to obtain refills, conditions of medication use), the conditions under which their treatment may be terminated, and the responsibilities of the health care provider.
Such documents can help facilitate communication between patients and healthcare providers and resolve any questions or concerns before initiation treatment.
For example, they can be used with patients who are beginning long-term treatment with a controlled substance.
A plant genus of the family ASTERACEAE.
Oil from the seed (SAFFLOWER OIL) is an important food oil of commerce.
Piromidic acid is a quinolone.
Malaoxon is a chemical compound with the formula C10H19O7PS.
More specifically, it is a phosphorothioate.
It is a breakdown product of, and more toxic than, malathion.
The selection of an appropriate reference standard of carbohydrate intake required for an individual patient.
This reference standard is then compared to the patient's estimated total carbohydrate intake and used to develop the nutrition prescription.
Morphine-6-glucuronide (M6G) is a major active metabolite of morphine, and as such is the molecule responsible for much of the pain-relieving effects of morphine (and thus heroin and codeine).
Neurofilaments are the 10 nanometer (10nm) intermediate filaments found specifically in neurons.
They are a major component of the cell's cytoskeleton, and provide support for normal axonal radial growth (i.e. increases in axon's diameter).
Neurofilament, NF, immunostaining is common in diagnostic neuropathology.
It is useful for differentiating neurons (positive for NF) from glia (negative for NF).
Tau proteins are proteins that stabilize microtubules.
They are abundant in neurons of the central nervous system and are less common elsewhere, but are also expressed at very low levels in CNS astrocytes and oligodendrocytes.
When tau proteins are defective, and no longer stabilize microtubules properly, they can result in dementias such as Alzheimer's disease.
Tau proteins interact with tubulin to stabilize microtubules and promote tubulin assembly into microtubules.
Tau has two ways of controlling microtubule stability: isoforms and phosphorylation.
Six tau isoforms exist in brain tissue, and they are distinguished by their number of binding domains.
Three isoforms have three binding domains and the other three have four binding domains.
The binding domains are located in the carboxy-terminus of the protein and are positively-charged (allowing it to bind to the negatively-charged microtubule).
The isoforms with four binding domains are better at stabilizing microtubules than those with three binding domains.
The isoforms are a result of alternative splicing in exons 2,3, and 10 of the tau gene.
Phosphorylation of tau is regulated by a host of kinases.
For example, PKN, a serine/threonine kinase.
When PKN is activated, it phosphorylates tau, resulting in disruption of microtubule organization Taniguchi et al., 2001.
False ragweed grows almost over all the continental United States.
Related species are found in Mexico, Hawaii and Australia.
False ragweed is considered to be a major source of pollen allergy in certain areas of the USA where the plant is common.
Asthma, allergic rhinitis and allergic conjunctivitis, similar to sensitisation from other Ragweeds, occur in sensitised individuals.
Symptoms may be elicited either due to sensitisation to this species, or due to cross-reactive mechanisms with other members of the Ragweed genus.
The Peppertree is native to Brazil, Peru, Uruguay, Paraguay, and North Argentina.
It has become naturalised in semi-tropical and tropical parts of the United States, and has been planted in many parts of the world.
Pollens from the Peppertree can induce asthma, allergic rhinitis and allergic conjunctivitis
Chlorobenzilate is a pesticide that is not currently used.
It was used as an acaricide against mites on citrus trees, including deciduous fruit trees.
It is a non-systemic pesticide that works through contact and as a neurotoxin: it disrupts the functioning of the nervous system.
A nitroimidazole used to treat AMEBIASIS; VAGINITIS; TRICHOMONAS INFECTIONS; GIARDIASIS; ANAEROBIC BACTERIA; and TREPONEMAL INFECTIONS.
It has also been proposed as a radiation sensitizer for hypoxic cells.
According to the Fourth Annual Report on Carcinogens (NTP 85-002, 1985, p133), this substance may reasonably be anticipated to be a carcinogen (Merck, 11th ed).
Tyrosine aminotransferase (or tyrosine transaminase) is an enzyme present in the liver and catalyzes the conversion of tyrosine to 4-hydroxyphenylpyruvate.
In humans, the tyrosine aminotransferase protein is encoded by the TAT gene.
A deficiency of the enzyme in humans can result in what is known as Type II Tyrosinemia, wherein there is an abundance of tyrosine as a result of tyrosine failing to undergo an aminotransferase reaction to form 4-hydroxyphenylpyruvate.
Isovalerylcarnitine+Methylbutyrylcarnitine is a primary marker for Isovaleric acidemia, Glutaric acidemia type II, 2-Methylbutyrylglycinuria and Ethylmalonic encephalopathy.
White Poplar(Populus alba), also known as silverleaf poplar is a member of the botanical family Willow(Salicaceae) and is related to the aspens.
Triplochiton scleroxylon is a tropical tree of Africa.
This timber is also known as Abachi, under the Nigerian name obeche, the Ghana name wawa, the Cameroon name ayous and Ivory Coast name samba.
The Severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS) coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2), first known as 2019 Novel Coronavirus (2019-nCoV), was first identified as the cause of a respiratory illness outbreak, later defined as Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-19), in Wuhan, China.
The full genome of the SARS-CoV-2 that causes COVID-19 was first posted by Chinese health authorities in GenBank, the NIH genetic sequence database, and in the Global Initiative on Sharing All Influenza Data (GISAI) portal.
This facilitated detection of the virus globally with subsequent sequences being nearly identical, suggesting a single, recent emergence from a virus related to bat coronaviruses and the SARS coronavirus.
Real time Reverse Transcription-Polymerase Chain Reaction (rRT-PCR) tests targeting regions within genes, including RdRp, S, N, M, and E genes, specific to SARS-CoV-2 have been developed by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), the World Health Organization (WHO) and others for the diagnosis of COVID-19.
Some assays only detect SARS-CoV-2 and other assays detect other strains (e.g. SARS-CoV) that are genetically similar.
Cytochrome P450 1A2 (CYP1A2)-mediated drug metabolism is highly variable and often based on a patient's genotype.
Genetic testing is performed to identifying patients who are poor, intermediate, extensive, or ultrarapid metabolizers of drugs metabolized by CYP1A2.
The CYP1A2 c.-729C>T polymorphism is associated with decreased activity of the CYP1A2 enzyme.
Parietaria judaica (spreading pellitory) is a species of plant in the family Urticaceae, commonly nicknamed sticky-weed.
The plant's pollen is highly allergenic.
In Australia it is also known as asthma weed, due to the high incidence of allergy.
It is unrelated to the herb pellitory (Anacyclus pyrethrum).
It is easily confused with the very similar species Parietaria officinalis.
Reported symptoms, objective signs and disease prognosis.
Actual contact or interaction with a specific hazard that increases an individual's risk of a detrimental physical or mental health outcome (e.g., ingestion or inhalation of a toxic chemical).
Information on an exposure may include the measurement of duration/intensity of contact or interaction with the specific hazard.
Desflurane (also known as Suprane) is a general anesthetic that is inhaled before and during surgical procedures in adults.
This medication may also be used in conjunction with other anesthetics to maintain anesthesia for longer periods of time.
Desflurane induces anesthesia by blocking calcium and sodium ion channels, thus disrupting synaptic transmission in the brain.
An individual's personal sense of being a man, woman, or other gender, regardless of the sex that person was assigned at birth.
The interRAI Contact Assessment (interRAI CA) Screener was created to provide information to support the home care intake process.
The system was validated and refined through an interRAI / Ontario Ministry of Health and Long-Term Care collaboration.
Three main goals guided its development: 1) to support decision making; 2) to record basic clinical information on persons who would not be receiving any additional comprehensive assessment at a later stage; and 3) to provide initial clinical information for end-of-life and long-term persons (maintenance, supportive, and long-stay rehabilitation) in order that short-term services, if necessary, could be put in place prior to completion of the full interRAI HC or interRAI PC Assessment.
Coagulase-negative staphylococci (CoNS) are Staphylococci that are unable to produce coagulase, an enzyme that causes blood clot formation.
CoNS species include S. epidermidis, S. saprophyticus, S. haemolyticus, S. lugdunensis, S. schleiferi, and S. caprae.
S. epidermidis is a commensal of the skin, but can cause severe infections in immune-suppressed patients and those with central venous catheters.
S. saprophyticus, another coagulase-negative species that is part of the normal vaginal flora, is predominantly found in genitourinary tract infections in sexually-active young women.
In recent years, several other Staphylococcus species have been implicated in human infections, notably S. lugdunensis, S. schleiferi, and S. caprae.
DQB1*0301 is the major DQ7 allele DQB1*0301 appears to be associated with lupus anticoagulant.
Implicit a-wave time is the amount of time between the flash onset and the trough of the retinal a-wave produced on an electroretinogram (ERG).
Prostaglandin-endoperoxide synthase 2, also known as cyclooxygenase-2 or simply COX-2, is an enzyme that in humans is encoded by the PTGS2 gene.
Cyclooxygenase-2 is unexpressed under normal conditions in most cells, but elevated levels are found during inflammation.
Since COX-2 is generally expressed only in cells where prostaglandins are upregulated (e.g., during inflammation), drug-candidates that selectively inhibit COX-2 are thought to show fewer side-effects.
Non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) inhibit prostaglandin production by cyclooxygenases (COX) 1 and 2. NSAIDs selective for inhibition of COX-2 are less likely than traditional drugs to cause gastrointenstinal adverse effects, but could cause cardiovascular events, such as heart failure, myocardial infarction, and stroke.
Studies with human pharmacology and genetics, genetically manipulated rodents, and other animal models and randomized trials indicate that this is due to suppression of COX-2-dependent cardioprotective prostaglandins, prostacyclin in particular NSAID (non-specific inhibitor of COX-2)
Flurbiprofen (green) bound to COX-2.
Flurbiprofen is stabilized via hydrophobic interactions and polar interactions (Tyr-355 and Arg-120).
The expression of COX-2 is upregulated in many cancers.
The overexpression of COX-2 along with increased angiogenesis and GLUT-1 expression is significantly associated with gallbladder carcinomas.
Furthermore the product of COX-2, PGH2 is converted by prostaglandin E2 synthase into PGE2, which in turn can stimulate cancer progression.
Consequently inhibiting COX-2 may have benefit in the prevention and treatment of these types of cancer.
The mutant allele PTGS2 5939C carriers among the Han Chinese population have been shown to have a higher risk of gastric cancer.
In addition, a connection was found between Helicobacter pylori infection and the presence of the 5939C allele.
A plant species in the PIPERACEAE plant family.
It is a common spice on foods and is used medicinally to increase gastrointestinal assimilation of other supplements and drugs.
PIPERINE is a key component.
Black pepper is picked unripe and heaped for a few days to ferment.
White Pepper is the ripe fruit dehulled by maceration in water.
Integrin, beta 2 (complement component 3 receptor 3 and 4 subunit), also known as CD18 or ITGB2, is a human gene.
CD18 is the beta subunit of three different structures: LFA-1 (paired with CD11a), Macrophage-1 antigen (paired with CD11b), Integrin alphaXbeta2 (paired with CD11c), and Integrin alphaXbeta2 (paired with CD11c).
The ITGB2 protein product is the integrin beta chain beta 2.
Integrins are integral cell-surface proteins composed of an alpha chain and a beta chain.
A given chain may combine with multiple partners resulting in different integrins.
For example, beta 2 combines with the alpha L chain to form the integrin LFA-1, and combines with the alpha M chain to form the integrin Mac-1.
Integrins are known to participate in cell adhesion as well as cell-surface mediated signalling.
Brewer's yeast (also known as brewing yeast) can mean any live yeast used in brewing.
It can also mean yeast obtained as a by-product of brewing, dried and killed, and used as a dietary supplement for its B vitamin content.
Brewers classify yeasts as top-fermenting and bottom-fermenting.
This distinction was introduced by the Dane Emil Christian Hansen.
"Top-fermenting yeasts" are so called because they form a foam at the top of the wort during fermentation.
They can produce higher alcohol concentrations and prefer higher temperatures, typically 16 to 24 °C (61 to 75 °F), producing fruitier, sweeter, ale-type beers.
An example of a top-fermenting yeast is Saccharomyces cerevisiae, known to brewers as ale yeast.
"Bottom-fermenting yeasts" are typically used to produce lager-type beers, though can also produce ale-type beers.
These yeasts ferment more sugars, leaving a crisper taste, and grow well at low temperatures.
An example of bottom fermenting yeast is Saccharomyces pastorianus, formerly known as Saccharomyces carlsbergensis.
Aldicarb sulfoxide is a break down product of aldicarb.
Aldicarb is a commercial pesticide that functions as an cholinesterase inhibitor in humans and can cause death or long term health effects.
Spectinomycin hydrochloride (Trobicin®) is an aminocyclitol antibiotic produced by the bacterium Streptomyces spectabilis.
It binds to the 30S ribosomal subunit in invading bacteria and interrupts protein synthesis.
It is given by injection to treat gonorrhea.
Side effects include itching, chills, and red rash.
The H locus contains the FUT1 gene, which is expressed in RBCs.
At least one functioning copy of FUT1 needs to be present (H/H or H/h) for the H antigen to be produced on RBCs.
If both copies of FUT1 are inactive (h/h), the Bombay phenotype results.
Beck L, Blood groups and red cell antigens. .
Soluble C3-convertase, also known as iC3Bb, catalyzes the proteolytic cleavage of complement component C3 into C3a and C3b during the alternate complement pathway.
C3b binds to microbial pathgens leading to the production of surface-bound C3 convertase and then to more C3b.
Also known as C3bBb, this convertase is similar to soluble C3-convertase except that it is membrane bound.
Bound C3b facilitates opsonization of pathogens by macrophages.
Complement receptor 1 (CR1) on macrophages mediates the destruction of C3b-covered microbes.
organic chemical compound which is a primary aromatic amine consisting of a benzene ring and an amino group
Gamma-aminobutyric acid (usually abbreviated to GABA) is an inhibitory neurotransmitter found in the nervous systems of widely divergent species.
It is the chief inhibitory neurotransmitter in the vertebrate central nervous system.
A c-jun amino-terminal kinase that is activated by environmental stress and pro-inflammatory cytokines.
Several isoforms of the protein with molecular sizes of 43 and 48 KD exist due to multiple ALTERNATIVE SPLICING.
Food allergen mix 32 (fx32) contains carob, lentil, white bean and pea IgE antibodies.
Testing for IgE antibodies may be used to help diagnose an allergic disease or the cause of an anaphylactic episode in a patient.
Pressure half-time is the time needed for the atrioventricular pressure gradient to reduce to half its initial measurement during ventricular diastole.
It is primarily assessed through Doppler echocardiography though more invasive cardiac catherization and provides a means of calculating the approximate mitral valve area and evaluating mitral valve stenosis regurgitation.
Caution should be used when applying pressure half-time measurements in patients with prosthetic mitral valves, mitral commissurotomy, tachycardia, arrhythmias, and aortic insufficiency.
Cryoglobulins are immunoglobulins that precipitate as serum is cooled below core body temperatures.
Cryoglobulinemia is characterized by the presence of cryoglobulins in the serum.
Single-component cryoglobulins contain only one isotype of immunoglobulin or, in rare instances, a cryoprecipitable monoclonal immunoglobulin light chain.
Mixed cryoglobulins are immune complexes made of two different types of immunoglobulin, usually an IgM antiglobulin and IgG antigen.
The classification initially proposed (Brouet et al) describes simple cryoglobulins as type I, and sub-divides mixed cryoglobulins as type II, in which case the antiglobulin is typically monoclonal, and type III, in which the antiglobulin is polyclonal.
Some disorders associated with Type I are: multiple myeloma, Waldenstrom's macroglobulinemia, and other lymphoproliferative diseases.
Type II may be associated with: chronic hepatitis C virus infection, Sjogren's syndrome, Waldenstrom's macroglobulinemia, chronic lymphocytic leukemia, non-Hodgkins' lymphoma, autoimmune diseases.
Type III may be associated with: chronic infections, viral (EBV, CMV, HIV, hepatitis viruses), bacterial (SBE, leprosy, spirochetal), fungal, parasitic, autoimmune diseases, systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE), rheumatoid arthritis, inflammatory bowel diseases, and biliary cirrhosis.
Screening for complement levels is done by quantitating antigenic levels of C3 and C4 and determining total hemolytic complement (CH50).
Very low or undetectable levels of C4 with normal or relatively normal levels of C3 are often seen in type II cryoglobulinemia, and may suggest this diagnosis or a need for further workup for HCV infection.
Low complement levels may also be seen in association with type II cryoglobulinemia complicating Sjogren's syndrome or with type III cryoglobulinemia in patients with rheumatoid vasculitis or SLE.
The OPA1 gene (optic atrophy 1 (autosomal dominant)) is located on chromosome 3q29.
This gene product is a nuclear-encoded mitochondrial protein with similarity to dynamin-related GTPases.
It is a component of the mitochondrial network.
Mutations in this gene have been associated with optic atrophy type 1, which is a dominantly inherited optic neuropathy resulting in progressive loss of visual acuity, leading in many cases to legal blindness.
Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
Glucose-1-phosphate uridylyltransferase (or UDP-glucose pyrophosphorylase) is an enzyme associated with glycogenesis.
It synthesizes UDP-glucose from glucose-1-phosphate and UTP.
Reboxetine is a selective noradrenergic reuptake inhibitor that binds to the norepinephrine transporter and blocks reuptake of norepinephrine.
It is primarily used in Europe to treat major depressive disorder; it has not been approved for use in the United States as of 2018.
Ispaghula husk consists of the episperm and collapsed adjacent layers removed from the seeds of Plantago ovata Forssk (Plantago ispaghula Roxb.).
Staphylococcus aureus (SA) multiple locus variable number tandem repeat analysis (VNTR) is a molecular typing method used to assign biologically meaningful genotypes and complexes to SA.
Unlike other resource intensive typing methods, MLVA is a high throughput low cost method that aids in the study of the routes and rates of SA transmission.
MLVA may play a future role in advancing hospital, national, and international epidemiology.
Tyrosine crystals are colorless to brownish fine, needle-like crystals.
They are rarely present in urine but when detected, they indicate severe liver disease or conditions causing aminoaciduria.
A PREDNISOLONE derivative with similar anti-inflammatory action.
A biogenic amine is a biogenic substance with an amine group.
Allobarbital is a barbiturate derivative invented in 1912.
It was used primarily as an anticonvulsant although it has now largely been replaced by newer drugs with improved safety profiles.
Other uses for allobarbital included as an adjutant to boost the activity of analgesic drugs, and use in the treatment of insomnia and anxiety.
Allobarbital was never particularly widely used compared to better known barbiturates such as phenobarbital and secobarbital, although it saw more use in some European countries such as Bulgaria and Slovakia, and is still used in for example Poland, but only as compound
The C1 esterase inhibitor assay is used to diagnose hereditary angioneurotic edema.
Exhaustion of C1 esterase inhibitor allows spontaneous auto-catalytic C1 activation and the break down of C2 and C components.
The disease can be caused by low concentrations or the abnormal structure of the protein.
The disease is inherited as an autosomal dominant trait and has been successfully treated with prednisolone and transfusion of fresh frozen plasma.
Zolpidem is a prescription medication used for the short-term treatment of insomnia, as well as some brain disorders.
It is a short-acting nonbenzodiazepine hypnotic that potentiates gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA), an inhibitory neurotransmitter, by binding to gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABAA) receptors at the same location as benzodiazepines.
Trade names of zolpidem include Adormix, Ambien, Ambien CR, Edluar, Zolpimist, Damixan, Hypnogen, Ivedal, Lioran, Myslee, Nasen, Nytamel, Sanval, Somidem, Stilnoct, Stilnox, Stilnox CR, Sucedal, Zoldem, Zolnod and Zolpihexal.
Zolpidem has not adequately demonstrated effectiveness in maintaining sleep.
Its hypnotic effects are similar to those of the benzodiazepine class of drugs, but it is molecularly distinct from the classical benzodiazepine molecule and is classified as an imidazopyridine.
Flumazenil, a benzodiazepine receptor antagonist, which is used for benzodiazepine overdose, can also reverse zolpidem's sedative/hypnotic and memory impairing effects.
Streptavidin is a protein purified from the bacterium Streptomyces avidinii, with homo-tetramers having an extraordinarily high affinity for biotin.
The biological function is unknown.
Streptavidin is used extensively in molecular biology and bio-nanotechnology due to the streptavidin-biotin complex's resistance to organic solvents, denaturants, detergents, proteolytic enzymes, and extremes of temperature and pH.
The most common uses are the purification or detection of various biomolecules.
4-Hydroxyphenylpyruvic acid is an intermediate in the metabolism of phenylalanine.
Ambrosia confertiflora is a species of ragweed known by the common name weakleaf bur ragweed.
It is native to much of northern Mexico and the southwestern United States as far east as Kansas and Oklahoma.
An oxide of aluminum, occurring in nature as various minerals such as bauxite, corundum, etc.
It is used as an adsorbent, desiccating agent, and catalyst, and in the manufacture of dental cements and refractories.
CSF tau phosphorylated at threonine 181 (p-tau181) is a widely used biomarker for Alzheimer disease (AD) and has recently been regarded to reflect β-amyloid and/or p-tau deposition in the AD brain.
Neuronal intranuclear inclusion disease (NIID) is a neurodegenerative disease characterized by intranuclear inclusions in neurons, glial cells, and other somatic cells.
Symptoms include dementia, neuropathy, and others.
CSF biomarkers were not reported.
The objective of this study was to investigate whether CSF biomarkers including p-tau181 are altered in patients with NIID.
A species of gram-positive bacteria that is a common soil and water saprophyte.
The PRSS1 gene (protease, serine, 1 (trypsin 1)) is located on chromosome 7q34.
This gene encodes a trypsinogen, which is a member of the trypsin family of serine proteases.
This enzyme is secreted by the pancreas and cleaved to its active form in the small intestine.
It is active on peptide linkages involving the carboxyl group of lysine or arginine.
Mutations in this gene are associated with hereditary pancreatitis.
This gene and several other trypsinogen genes are localized to the T cell receptor beta locus on chromosome 7.
Homocysteine is an amino acid and breakdown product of protein metabolism.
High plasma concentrations of homocysteine may increase risk of cardiovascular disease.
Levels of homocysteine tend to be highest for patients who eat a lot of animal protein and consume few fruits and leafy vegetables, which provide the folic acid and other B vitamins that help lower homocysteine.
Homocysteine is also produced in the body from another amino acid, methionine.
Patients with active systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) have lower levels of monocyte programmed death ligand 1 (PD-L1) expression compared to healthy controls as well as patients with SLE who are in remission.
In addition, TNF-alpha inhibitors may play a role in suppressing PD-L1 with a consequent increase in autoantibody production.
Persistence of low PD-L1 expression in patients with SLE may be associated with more severe disease as well as lupus nephritis.
Human coronavirus (HCoV) HKU1 was identified in Hong Kong in 2005.
It is associated with upper and lower respiratory tract infections.
Capsicum frutescens is a species of chili pepper that includes the following cultivar and varieties: Piri piri, African birdseye, or African devil, Malagueta pepper, Tabasco pepper, used to make Tabasco sauce, and Thai pepper, also called Chili Padi or Siling labuyo.
Carbofuran is an odorless white crystalline solid cholinesterase inhibitor used to treat insects, mites, ticks, and nematodes.
It is toxic when it is inhaled, is ingested, or comes in contact with the skin.
Carbofuran may burn the skin and eyes.
Symptoms of carbofuran inhalation include sweating, pupillary constriction, muscle cramps, excessive salivation, dizziness, vomiting, labored breathing, and unconsciousness.
Ingestion of carbofuran can lead to abdominal cramps, diarrhea, headache, nausea, and vomiting.
Carbofuran can produce toxic oxides of nitrogen when it is heated or exposed to flames.
Caffeine is methylxanthine naturally occurring in some beverages such as coffee, and is also a pharmacological agent.
Caffeine is a central nervous system stimulant, that increases alertness and produces agitation.
It also relaxes smooth muscle, stimulates cardiac muscle, stimulates diuresis, and is useful in the treatment of some types of headache.
Several cellular actions of caffeine have been observed, but it is not entirely clear how each contributes to its pharmacological profile.
Among the most important are inhibition of cyclic nucleotide phosphodiesterases, antagonism of adenosine receptors, and modulation of intracellular calcium handling.
Facility information from wholesale drug distributors and third-party logistic providers that is collected by the FDA to inform receiving systems that the company is withdrawing their report of their wholesale drug distributor and/or third-party logistics provider.
Glucosamine (C6H14NO5) is an amino sugar that is an important precursor in the biochemical synthesis of glycosylated proteins and lipids.
Propafenone is a class 1C antiarrhythmic drug for treating ventricular arrhythmias.
Overdose may cause confusion, hypotension, convulsions, ventricular tachycardia.
It is important to monitor its level to avoid toxicity, to assure compliance, and to optimize its therapeutic effects (Quest Diagnostics).
Drugs capable of inducing illusions, hallucinations, delusions, paranoid ideations, and other alterations of mood and thinking.
Despite the name, the feature that distinguishes these agents from other classes of drugs is their capacity to induce states of altered perception, thought, and feeling that are not experienced otherwise.
Haemophilus influenzae is a gram-negative bacteria and is the cause of a variety of infections including otitis media and upper respiratory tract infections, as well as more severe infections in patients who are not immunized, such as meningitis and sepsis.
The lex2 gene is responsible for the expression of a lipopolysaccharide (LPS) that has been associated with H influenzae virulence.
Identification of lex2 in clinical specimens can be used to identify H influenzae as one of the pathogens responsible for a specific infection.
The Common Octopus (Octopus vulgaris) is the most studied of all octopus species.
Its natural range extends from the Mediterranean Sea and the southern coast of England to at least Senegal in Africa.
It also occurs off the Azores, Canary Islands, and Cape Verde Islands.
A genus of aerobic, helical spirochetes, some species of which are pathogenic, others free-living or saprophytic.
The zona-free hamster egg-human sperm penetration assay is a test used to evaluate the ability of the sperm to penetrate an egg.
It is also an indicator of the number of sperm required for fertilization in the in vitro fertilization procedure.
Techniques are utilized to enhance penetration if the value is low.
Hamsters are injected with hormones to produce many eggs; the eggs are collected and the outer egg membrane dissolved with chemicals.
After the sperm sample has been prepared with special techniques, it is added to approximately 30-50 eggs.
Many hours later the eggs are examined for penetration by the sperm.
The human sperm does not fertilize the hamster eggs.
Methylphenidate (brand name Ritalin) is a central nervous system (CNS) stimulant used in the treatment of attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD).
It is also used to treat depression, narcolepsy, brain injury, cancer, pain, cognitive disorders and to treat patients with human immunodeficiency virus infection.
Methylphenidate can be admistered orally, intravenously or intranasally.
This medication can be habit forming and has potential for abuse.
Intranasal abuse can mimic the effects cocaine in both onset and type as it provides a rapid release of synaptic dopamine that causes an instant feeling of euphoria.
Side effects can include insomnia, stomach ache, headache, and anorexia.
Phosphoserine is an essential amino acid derivative.
Elevated phosphoserine levels occur due to pyridoxal 5 phosphate (P5P) deficiency.
P5P is the active form of vitamin B6, pyridoxine.
Cystathionine synthetase and cystathionine lyase use P5P as a cofactor and impaired cystathionine synthetase activity leads to homocystinuria, which is often associated with mental retardation.
The cerebral atrophic index (CAI or ATI) is the ratio of cerebrospinal fluid or infarcted brain to intracranial volume.
CAI has been correlated with cognitive impairments in conditions such as alzheimers disease and ischemic vascular dementia (IVD).
Botrytis cinerea is a necrotrophic fungus that affects many plant species, although its most notable hosts may be wine grapes.
In viticulture, it is commonly known as botrytis bunch rot; in horticulture, it is usually called grey mould or gray mold.
The fungus gives rise to two different kinds of infections on grapes.
The first, grey rot, is the result of consistently wet or humid conditions, and typically results in the loss of the affected bunches.
The second, noble rot, occurs when drier conditions follow wetter, and can result in distinctive sweet dessert wines, such as Sauternes or the Aszú of Tokaj.
The species name Botrytis cinerea is derived from the Latin for "grapes like ashes"; although poetic, the "grapes" refers to the bunching of the fungal spores on their conidiophores, and "ashes" just refers to the greyish color of the spores en masse.
The fungus is usually referred to by its anamorph (asexual form) name, because the sexual phase is rarely observed.
The teleomorph (sexual form) is an ascomycete, Botryotinia cinerea (see taxonomy box).
Asparagine+Ornithine is a primary marker for Hyper ORN.
Secondary marker for Hyperornithinemia-Hyperammonemia-Homocitrullinuria syndrome.
Yellow hornet is sometimes referred to as the aerial yellow jacket.
Yellow hornets build rather large nests, often hanging from branches or on eaves of houses.
In general, they sting only when their nest is disturbed.
Most yellow hornets are found in the near Arctic regions in Asia, Europe and North America.
They are not particularly attracted by food and are not often in contact with man.
IgE-mediated reactions often present as large local reactions with swelling extending from the sting site.
They sometimes include anaphylactic reactions with common symptoms such as urticaria, flushing and angioedema as well as more serious respiratory and cardiovascular symptoms.
The reactions can be fatal.
Both immediate and delayed type reactions can occur.
Bacillus anthracis is a Gram-positive, facultatively anaerobic, rod-shaped bacterium of the genus Bacillus.
A spore -forming bacterium, B. anthracis is a natural soil-dwelling organism, as well as the causative agent of anthrax.
Three forms of anthrax disease are recognized based on their form of inoculation.
- Cutaneous, the most common form (95%), causes a localized, inflammatory, black, necrotic lesion (eschar).
- Pulmonary, the highly fatal form, is characterized by sudden, massive chest edema followed by cardiovascular shock. -
Gastrointestinal, a rare but also fatal (causes death to 25%) type, results from ingestion of spores.
Erythrocytes with protoplasmic projections giving the cell a thorny appearance.
Bombus terrestris, the Buff-tailed Bumblebee or Large Earth Bumblebee is one of the most numerous bumblebee species in Europe.
The queen is 2-2.7 cm long, while the workers are 1½-2 cm.
The latter are characterized by their white-ended abdomens and look (apart from their yellowish bands being darker in direct comparison) just like those of the White-tailed Bumblebee (B. lucorum), a close relative.
The queens of B. terrestris have the namesake buff-white abdomen ("tail") tip; this area is white like in the workers in B. lucorum.
This fish is not a mackerel but a jack, also known as Japanese scad.
IgE antibodies have been measured in asthmatic adults, atopic dermatitis patients, and food-allergic children.
A drug combination that contains DIPHENHYDRAMINE and THEOPHYLLINE.
It is used for treating vertigo, motion sickness, and nausea associated with pregnancy.
It is not effective in the treatment of nausea associated with cancer chemotherapy.
UBA1 gene provides instructions for making the ubiquitin-activating enzyme E1.
This enzyme is necessary for the ubiquitin-proteasome system, which targets damaged or unneeded proteins to be broken down within cells.
Fibroblast growth factor 2 (also known as FGF2 and basic FGF) is part of the fibroblast growth factor family of proteins.
There are various isoforms of FGF2; some localize to the nucleus whereas others are stored in the basement membrane for extracellular transport.
FGF2 is a ligand for FGF receptors 1, 2, 3, 4, and integrin and plays a role in angiogenesis and regulation of cell processes.
HMB-45 is a monoclonal antibody that reacts against an antigen present in melanocytic tumors such as melanomas, and stands for Human Melanoma Black.
It is used in anatomic pathology as a marker for such tumors.
The antibody was generated to an extract of melanoma.
It reacts positively against melanocytic tumors but not other tumors, thus demonstrating specificity and sensitivity.
The antibody also reacts positively against junctional nevus cells but not intradermal nevi, and against fetal melanocytes but not normal adult melanocytes.
HMB-45 is nonreactive with almost all non-melanoma human malignancies, with the exception of rare tumors showing evidence of melanogenesis (e.g., pigmented schwannoma, clear cell sarcoma) or tumors associated with tuberous sclerosis complex (angiomyolipoma and lymphangiomyoma).
Myelin associated glycoprotein (MAG) is a 100 kDa transmembrane glycoprotein found in the periaxonal membranes of Schwann cells and oligodendrocytes of myelin sheaths.
Despite the fact that MAG is a known white matter inhibitor of axonal regeneration and as a receptor for IgM antibodies that demyelinates peripheral nerves, it has important roles that promote normal formation and maintenance of myelinated axons.
There are two apparent functions of MAG which are to act as a ligand for an axonal receptor which maintains myelinated axons, and to act as an axonal signal receptor that promotes differentiation, maintenance, and survival of oligodendrocytes.
MAG shares an epitope with other glyoconjugates that is the target protein in autoimmune peripheral neuropathy, that is associated with IgM gammopathy which causes the death of oligodendrocytes that is seen in multiple sclerosis.
Urinary hexanoylglycine is a specific marker for the diagnosis of Medium-chain acyl-CoA dehydrogenase (MCAD) deficiency.
FEFx: Forced expiratory flow related to some portion of the force fital capacity (FVC) curve.
A spermatozoon or spermatozoan (pl. spermatozoa), from the ancient Greek (seed) and (living being) is the haploid cell that is the male gamete.
After a female ovum is fertilized by a sperm cell it becomes a zygote.
Sperm cells contribute half of the genetic information to the diploid offspring and the other hallf is contributed by the female ovum.
In mammals, the sex of the offspring is determined by the sperm cells: a spermatozoon bearing a Y chromosome will lead to a male (XY) offspring, whereas one bearing an X chromosome will lead to a female (XX) offspring (the ovum always provides an X chromosome).
Sperm cells were first observed by a student of Antoni van Leeuwenhoek in 1677.
Vinyl acetate is an organic compound with the formula CH3COOCH=CH2.
A colorless liquid with a pungent odor, it is the precursor to polyvinyl acetate, an important polymer in industry.
Telavancin (trade name Vibativ) is a bactericidal lipoglycopeptide for use in MRSA or other Gram-positive infections in adult patients.
Telavancin is a semi-synthetic derivative of vancomycin.
The FDA approved the drug in September 2009 for complicated skin and skin structure infections (cSSSI).
The "Autism Spectrum Disorder Action Plan" is a communication tool medical providers use to inform school staff of a patient's Autism spectrum disorder diagnosis and treatment protocol.
School staff uses this information to guide and authorize their treatment of the child's Autism spectrum disorder while at school.
The following information is included in the action plan: 1.
Patient information: demographics, school, grade, parent/guardian, emergency contacts, primary care provider/clinic, 2.
Autism Spectrum Disorder description: signs/symptoms 3.
Treatment protocol during school hours: medication orders (type medication, dosage amount and time), 4.
Additional notes/instructions: free text, and 5.
Acknowledgement: Authorization for administration of medication away from clinic, provider signature and date, parent/guardian authorization: signatures and dates consenting school to give medications.
Name of abnormal hemoglobin to be noted in a comment attached to message
An essential, branched-chain aliphatic amino acid found in many proteins.
It is an isomer of leucine.
It is important in hemoglobin synthesis, the regulation of blood sugar and in maintaining energy levels.
Acetyl-CoA acetyltransferase 1 (ACAT1) gene encodes a mitochondrially localized enzyme that catalyzes the reversible formation of acetoacetyl-CoA from two molecules of acetyl-CoA. Defects in this gene are associated with 3-ketothiolase deficiency, an inborn error of isoleucine catabolism characterized by urinary excretion of 2-methyl-3-hydroxybutyric acid, 2-methylacetoacetic acid, tiglylglycine, and butanone.
Testing methods such as sequencing and deletion/duplication analysis are peformed to detect variants within the ACAT1 gene and confirm a clinical diagnosis.
The nervous system is very sensitive to all forms of mercury.
Methylmercury and metallic mercury vapors are more harmful than other forms, because more mercury in these forms reaches the brain.
Exposure to high levels of metallic, inorganic, or organic mercury can permanently damage the brain, kidneys, and developing fetus.
Effects on brain functioning may result in irritability, shyness, tremors, changes in vision or hearing, and memory problems.
Short-term exposure to high levels of metallic mercury vapors may cause effects including lung damage, nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, increases in blood pressure or heart rate, skin rashes, and eye irritation.
Transcriptional intermediary factor 1-gamma (TIF1-gamma or E3 ubiquitin-protein ligase TRIM33), induces inactivation of the SMAD4 protein, which promotes cell growth (including malignant tumours) by inhibiting the anti-proliferative effects of TGF-beta.
Anti-TIF1-gamma autoantibodies have been associated with adult- and juvenile-onset dermatomyositis (DM), and particularly with cancer-associated DM.
22q11.2 deletion syndrome, also known by many other names including DiGeorge syndrome, CATCH22, and velocardiofacial syndrome, is caused by the deletion of a small piece of chromosome 22.
22q11.2 deletion syndrome is associated with variable characteristics including congenital heart disease, recurrent infection due to immune dysfunction, cleft palate and other distinct facial features, cognitive delay and autoimmune disease.
The general population risk of 22q11.2 deletion is about 1 in 4,000 live births, and does not change with maternal age.
Fetal risk of having 22q11.2 deletion syndrome can be derived from the general population risk as well as prenatal genetic testing of fetal DNA.
The CEBPA gene (CCAAT/enhancer binding protein (C/EBP), alpha) is located on chromosome 19q13.1.
This intronless gene encodes a transcription factor that contains a basic leucine zipper (bZIP) domain and recognizes the CCAAT motif in the promoters of target genes.
The encoded protein functions in homodimers and also heterodimers with CCAAT/enhancer-binding proteins beta and gamma.
Activity of this protein can modulate the expression of genes involved in cell cycle regulation as well as in body weight homeostasis.
Mutation of this gene is associated with acute myeloid leukemia.
The use of alternative in-frame non-AUG (GUG) and AUG start codons results in protein isoforms with different lengths.
Differential translation initiation is mediated by an out-of-frame, upstream open reading frame which is located between the GUG and the first AUG start codons.
Serum cryoglobulins are typically immunoglobulins that, in vitro, precipitate at temperatures below 37°C and redissolve on rewarming.
Cryoglobulins can be transient and without clinical implications or they can be a marker of significant disease.
Monoclonal cryoglobulins, which include IgG, IgM, or IgA, or monoclonal free light chains, are usually associated with haematological disorders.
Mixed cryoglobulins, which contain polyclonal immunoglobulins with or without a monoclonal component, are found in many infectious and systemic disorders.
There is a significant association between essential mixed cryoglobulinaemia and hepatitis C virus infection (> 90%).
Cryoglobulins may also contain complement components, such as C3, C4 and C1q.
Some cryoglobulinemias are associated with changes in serum complement levels, especially decreased complement C4, regardless of whether complements are part of the cryoglobulins themselves.
A non-steroidal anti-inflammatory agent (NSAID) with antipyretic and analgesic actions.
It is primarily available as the sodium salt.
Vicia faba, the Broad Bean, Fava Bean, Field Bean, Bell Bean or Tic Bean is a species of bean (Fabaceae) native to north Africa and southwest Asia, and extensively cultivated elsewhere.
Carboxy THC is the major metabolite of cannabinoid found in urine, but is not related to source, time of exposure, amount, or impairment.
Carboxy THC may be found in urine for 7-10 days following light or moderate use and as long as 4-6 weeks following heavy use.
THC metabolites are stored rapidly in body fat following use and are released slowly over time.
Alprazolam (brand name Xanax) is a short-acting anxiolytic of the benzodiazepine class of psychoactive drugs, used to treat anxiety and panic disorders.
It works by binding to gamma aminobutyric acid (GABA) receptors in the brain to increase GABA-mediated synaptic inhibition.
Alprazolam is also sometimes used to treat depression, fear of open spaces (agoraphobia), and premenstrual syndrome.
Alprazolam can be habit-forming and some of the more serious potential side effects are: shortness of breath, seizures, hallucinating, severe skin rash, yellowing of the skin or eyes, depression, memory problems, confusion, problems with speech, unusual changes in behavior or mood, and suicidal thoughts.
Lecithin naturally occurs in plants and animals.
It is composed of glycerol, two fatty acids, a phosphate group, and choline.
Lecithin is found in many foods including egg yolks, liver, peanuts, corn, spinach, whole grains, and soy beans.
Lecithin is used commercially as an emulsifier in baking mixes, candy, chewing gum, chocolate, ice cream, macaroni, margarine, whipped toppings, and many more.
Lecithin in the body is present in bile and functions to help emulsify dietary fats in the lumen of the small intestine.
Bile is produced in the liver and stored and concentrated in the gallbladder.
Lecithin is a the most abundant phospholipid that makes up the majority of cellular membranes.
Lecithin mixes with oil and water to form micelles.
Micelles are spherical shells of fat surounded by lecithin.
The nonpolar tails are oriented inward toward the fat and the polar end of lecithin is oriented outward toward the water.
The formation of micelles is a mechanical process known as emulsification which breaks fat into small droplets and makes the droplets water soluble.
Iodine is a trace element that is naturally present in some foods, added to others, and available as a dietary supplement.
Iodine is an essential component of the thyroid hormones thyroxine (T4) and triiodothyronine (T3).
Thyroid hormones regulate many important biochemical reactions, including protein synthesis and enzymatic activity, and are critical determinants of metabolic activity.
They are also required for proper skeletal and central nervous system development in fetuses and infants.
Thyroid function is primarily regulated by thyroid-stimulating hormone (TSH), also known as thyrotropin.
It is secreted by the pituitary gland to control thyroid hormone production and secretion, thereby protecting the body from hypothyroidism and hyperthyroidism.
TSH secretion increases thyroidal uptake of iodine and stimulates the synthesis and release of T3 and T4.
In the absence of sufficient iodine, TSH levels remain elevated, leading to goiter, an enlargement of the thyroid gland that reflects the body's attempt to trap more iodine from the circulation and produce thyroid hormones.
Iodine may have other physiological functions in the body as well.
For example, it appears to play a role in immune response and might have a beneficial effect on mammary dysplasia and fibrocystic breast disease.
Glucopsychosine (also called glucosylsphingosine) is a biomarker for selective deficiency of the enzyme, beta-glucocerebrosidase (beta-glucosidase), the cause of the autosomal recessive lysosomal storage disorder Gaucher disease.
There are 3 types of Gaucher disease, all of which include hepatosplenomegaly and hematological abnormalities.
Type I, the most common, also includes coagulation abnormalities, bone and lung involvement, whereas type II is rapidly progressive and includes CNS involvement.
Type III is more slowly progressive.
Laboratory confirmation can include the demonstration of reduced beta-glucosidase activity, molecular analysis of the GBA gene, and elevated blood glucopsychosine.
Measurement of glucopsychosine may also help in assessing response to enzyme replacement therapy .
Test to examine the ends of all chromosomes for deletions or rearrangements.
The degree or intensity of heat present in the specimen environment during transport, as expressed according to a comparative scale and shown by a thermometer.
The corticotropin releasing hormone (CRH) stimulation test is used to evaluate the hypothalamic-pituitary axis and help diagnose adrenocorticotrophic hormone (ACTH or corticotropin) dependent Cushing's disease.
CRH stimulation cannot distinguish between Cushing's and pseudo-Cushing's.
During the procedure, baseline ACTH measurements are followed by administration of 1 ug/kg of CRH, after which ACTH is measured again at timed intervals.
In patients with Cushing's, ACTH concentrations at 15 and 30 minutes post CRH administration should be at least 35% higher than the mean baseline value.
Patients with ectopic ACTH secretion will not have the same increase between pre- and post-.
The timing for baseline and post-CRH ACTH measurements vary depending on local protocol.
The dialysate fluid flows across the external side of the dialysis membrane.
The pressure and solute gradients between the patient's blood and the dialysate fluid determine the extent of fluid and solute removal.
Different dialysate fluids are used depending on the needs of the patient.
A specialized proteolytic enzyme secreted by intestinal cells.
It converts TRYPSINOGEN into its active form TRYPSIN by removing the N-terminal peptide. .
3-Methylcrotonyl-CoA carboxylase (3-MCC) deficiency is an inherited disorder characterized by inadequate levels of an enzyme that helps break down the amino acid leucine.
Signs and symptoms of this condition usually develop in infancy or early childhood and include feeding difficulties, vomiting, diarrhea, lethargy, and hypotonia.
If untreated, this disorder can lead to delayed development, seizures, and coma.
3-methylcrotonyl-CoA carboxylase deficiency is caused by mutations in the MCCC1 or MCCC2 gene and has an autosomal recessive pattern of inheritance.
CFP10, also known as ESAT-6-like protein esxB, is a protein that is encoded by the esxB gene.
CFP10 is a 10 kDa secreted antigen from Mycobacterium tuberculosis.
It forms a 1:1 heterodimeric complex with ESAT-6.
Both genes are expressed from the RD1 region of the bacterial genome and play a key role in the virulence of the infection.
It is used in tuberculosis diagnosis by whole blood interferon γ tests, e.g. QuantiFERON-TB Gold and T-SPOT.TB, in conjunction with ESAT-6 and TB7.7 (QuantiFERON-TB Gold).
A flavoprotein and iron sulfur-containing oxidoreductase that catalyzes the oxidation of NADH to NAD.
In eukaryotes the enzyme can be found as a component of mitochondrial electron transport complex I. Under experimental conditions the enzyme can use CYTOCHROME C GROUP as the reducing cofactor.
The enzyme was formerly listed as .
A macrolide antibiotic that has a wide antimicrobial spectrum and is particularly effective in respiratory and genital infections.
The inferior-posterior angle defined by Sella, Nasion and Supramentale (B point)
Aspergillus fumigatus is an opportunistic fungus causing allergic and invasive aspergillosis in humans and animals.
It is unusual compared to other allergen sources in that it is both a primary and an opportunistic pathogen, as well as an important major allergen.
Its conidia production is prolific, so humans are continually inhaling its ubiquitous spores.
The result is that exposure of the respiratory tract is almost constant.
However, inhalation rarely causes adverse effects, as the conidia are usually eliminated efficiently by the innate immune system.
But increasing use of immunosuppressive therapy has resulted in increasingly frequent conditions involving infection by A fumigatus.
Tin is a component of many soils and may be released in dusts from wind storms, roads, and farming activities.
Gases, dusts, and fumes containing tin may be released from smelting and refining processes, burning of waste, and burning of fossil fuels (coal or oil).
In small amounts tin does not cause any harmful effects, however, ingesting large amounts of inorganic tin may cause abdominal pain, anemia, and liver and kidney problems.
There is no evidence that inorganic tin compounds affect reproductive functions, produce birth defects, or cause cancer.
Fetal red cells contain fetal hemoglobin (also hemoglobin F, HbF, or α2γ2) that is the main oxygen transport protein in the human fetus during the last seven months of development in the uterus and persists in the newborn until roughly 6 months old.
Functionally, fetal hemoglobin differs most from adult hemoglobin in that it is able to bind oxygen with greater affinity than the adult form, giving the developing fetus better access to oxygen from the mother's bloodstream.
In newborns, fetal hemoglobin is nearly completely replaced by adult hemoglobin by approximately 6 months postnatally, except in a few thalassemia cases.
Ganglioside GM4 (also known as sialosylgalactosyl ceramide) is one of the gangliosides present in the central nervous system and is a major component of myelin.
Anti-GM4 autoantibodies have been associated with multiple sclerosis, Guillain-Barre syndrome, Miller-Fisher syndrome, and multifocal motor neuropathy
Columnar epithelia are epithelial cells whose heights are at least four times their width.
Columnar epithelia are divided into simple (or unilayered), and stratified (or multi-layered).
Malassezia (formerly known as Pityrosporum) is a genus of related fungi, classified as yeasts, naturally found on the skin surfaces of many animals including humans.
It can cause hypopigmentation on the trunk and other locations in humans if it becomes an opportunistic infection.
Felbamate (brand name Felbatol) is an anticonvulsant drug used in the treatment of epilepsy.
It is used to treat partial seizures (with and without generalization) in adults and partial and generalized seizures associated with Lennox-Gastaut syndrome in children.
However, an increased risk of potentially fatal aplastic anemia and/or liver failure limit the drugs usage to severe refractory epilepsy.
The whole genome sequence of a microorganism isolated from a patient specimen may be used to identify the causative agent of recurrent infections and for public health and epidemiological purposes.
Includes MELAS, MERFF & NARP
One of the PENICILLINS which is resistant to PENICILLINASE.
Muscle-specific kinase (MuSK) is a post-synaptic receptor tyrosine kinase that plays a key role in the formation of neuromuscular junctions during embryonic development.
Antibodies to MuSK are one cause of myasthenia gravis (MG), an autoimmune disease that affects neuromuscular synapses.
MG is typically due to antibodies to post-synaptic acetylcholine receptors (AChR), but a subset of patients with MG do not have AChR antibodies and instead have been found to have other autoantibodies, including MuSK.
Patients with MuSK MG usually have an earlier onset and are predominantly female, and treatment options are different from patients with typical MG.
Colorless or yellow-brown granules (visible pink color) with no clinical significance.
Koontz A. Clinical Significance of Formed Elements in Urine.
Linum usitatissimum seed, also known as flaxseed or linseed, is a native plant of Central Asia and Arabia, but is now grown commercially worldwide.
Its fiber, seed, and oil have many commercial uses including in the production of textiles, printing ink, paints, varnishes, baking products and animal feed.
Of late, flaxseed has been touted as a super food in Korea where it is used in alternative medicine and as a dietary supplement.
In sensitized individuals flaxseed has caused occupational asthma, contact dermatitis, and rare cases of anaphylaxis.
Recombinant non-glycosylated protein produced in an E. coli strain carrying a cloned cDNA encoding Betula verrucosa allergen Bet v 1 Bet v 2, a well-described minor allergen from birch pollen, belongs to the family of profilins, a group of common actin-binding proteins.
Profilins can be found as cross-reactive allergens not only in pollen from unrelated plants (trees, grasses, weeds) but also in other plant tissues (of fruits, vegetables, nuts, spices, and latex).
Oxazepam glucuronide is a major metabolite of oxazepam, which is a benzodiazepine derivative used in the treatment of anxiety, alcohol withdrawal, and insomnia.
Signaling lymphocytic activation molecule (SLAM)-associated protein (SAP) and X-linked inhibitor of apoptosis protein (XIAP) levels are measured for the diagnosis of X-linked lymphoproliferative (XLP) disease and X-linked familial hemophagocytic lymphohistiocytosis (HLH).
XLP (aka XLP-1, Duncan disease, and Purtilo syndrome) and HLH (aka XLP-2) are two types of X-linked lymphoproliferative diseases described to date.
XLP is caused by mutations in the SH2D1A gene, which encodes the cytoplasmic adaptor protein SAP.
If the SAP protein is low, patients develop dysgammaglobulinemia, fulminant mononucleosis following infection with Epstein Barr virus (EBV), and B-cell lymphoma.
HLH is caused by mutations in the XIAP gene, which encodes the XIAP protein.
Patients with HLH commonly present with splenomegaly and recurrent episodes of hemophagocytic lymphohistiocytosis, often in response to EBV infection.
Carbenicillin is an antibiotic belonging to the carboxypenicillin subgroup of the penicillins.
It has gram-negative coverage which includes Pseudomonas aeruginosa but limited gram-positive coverage.
The carboxypenicillins are susceptible to degradation by beta-lactamase enzymes.
The antibiotic is very soluble in water and is acid-labile.
Aqueous solutions are short-lived.
Working concentration in the lab: up to 100 µg per ml.
It is a semi-synthetic analogue of the naturally occurring penicillin.
Although much more expensive than ampicillin, it is much more stable.
Eicosapentaenoic acid (EPA) is one of three principal omega-3 fatty acids (along with alpha-linolenic acid (ALA), and docosahexaenoic acid (DHA)).
ALA can be converted, usually in small amounts, into EPA and DHA in the body.
EPA can be found in seafood, including fatty fish (e.g. salmon, tuna, and trout) and shellfish (e.g. crab, mussels, and oysters).
Omega-3 fatty acids, including EPA, are important for a number of bodily functions, including muscle activity, blood clotting, digestion, fertility, and cell division and growth.
Sheep milk cheese is a cheese prepared from sheep milk.
Well-known cheeses made from sheep milk include the Feta of Greece, Roquefort of France, Manchego from Spain, the Pecorino Romano and Ricotta of Italy.
Yogurts, especially some forms of strained yogurt, may also be made from sheep milk.
Eastern equine encephalitis is an encephalitogenic arbovirus common in North America and transmitted to humans via an arthropod vector.
Central nervous system infection may present as aseptic meningitis, encephalitis, or meningoencephalitis.
Information from ARUP Laboratories and Jacobs and DeMott Laboratory Test Handbook, 5th edition, DS Jacobs, WR DeMott and DK Oxley, 2001.
Am is a very rare blood subgroup.
The main distinguishing features of Am cells are: no reaction with anti-A or anti-A,B in routine testing, and anti-A1 is not present in the serum.
Blood Group A Suptypes, The Owen Foundation.
The Interleukins belong to the family termed cytokines.
They are peptides used by immune and inflammatory cells to communicate and control cell operations.
The cytokines have some similar actions to the Growth Factors but Growth Factors regulate proliferation of non-immune cells.
Interleukin 8 is a 6,000 - 8000 molecular weight glycoprotein produced primarily by macrophages and monocytes.
Its primary target cells are neutrophils.
Interleukin 8 is a chemotactic agent for monocytes and neutrophils.
Interleukin 8 causes oxygen radical and enzyme release by neutrophils and mobilizes products into circulation.
Interleukin 8 is stimulated by Interleukin 1 and Tumor Necrosis Factor.
The HNA 5 system has two antigens, HNA-5a and HNA-5b, located on CD11a.
Salicylamide is the common name for the substance o-hydroxybenzamide, or amide of salicyl.
Salicylamide is a non-prescription drug with analgesic and antipyretic properties.
Its medicinal uses are similar to those of aspirin.
Salicylamide is used in combination with both aspirin and caffeine in the over-the-counter pain remedy known as BC Powder.
Reserpine is an indole alkaloid antipsychotic and antihypertensive drug that has been used for the control of high blood pressure and for the relief of psychotic symptoms, although because of the development of better drugs for these purposes and because of its numerous side-effects, it is rarely used today.
The antihypertensive actions of reserpine are a result of its ability to deplete catecholamines (among the others) from peripheral sympathetic nerve endings.
These substances are normally involved in controlling heart rate, force of cardiac contraction and peripheral resistance.
Reserpine depletion of monoamine neurotransmitters in the synapses is often cited as evidence to the theory that depletion of the neurotransmitters causes subsequent depression in humans.
Moreover, reserpine has a peripheral action in many parts of the body, resulting in a preponderance of the cholinergic part of the nervous system (GI tract, smooth muscles vessels).
The Asian hornet (Vespa velutina), also known as the yellow-legged hornet, is a species of hornet native to Southeast Asia.
It is considered an invasive species in certain European countries.
Vespa velutina stings can provoke allergic reactions, including anaphylaxis.
Studies have shown that patients presenting with anaphylaxis have specific IgE (sIgE) against Vespula spp venom and its allergen components, Ves v 5 and Ves v 1.
Specific venom treatment is not available, although some success has been reported with using yellow jacket venom for immunotherapy.
Sepiapterin is a product of sepiapterin reductase.
An enzyme that catalyzes the conversion of alpha D-glucose 1-phosphate to alpha D-glucose 6-phosphate. .
Adenosine-5'-triphosphate (ATP) is a multifunctional nucleotide used in cells as a coenzyme.
It is often called the "molecular unit of currency" of intracellular energy transfer.
ATP transports chemical energy within cells for metabolism.
It is produced by photophosphorylation and cellular respiration and used by enzymes and structural proteins in many cellular processes, including biosynthetic reactions, motility, and cell division.
One molecule of ATP contains three phosphate groups, and it is produced by ATP synthase from inorganic phosphate and adenosine diphosphate (ADP) or adenosine monophosphate (AMP).
Metabolic processes that use ATP as an energy source convert it back into its precursors.
ATP is therefore continuously recycled in organisms: the human body, which on average contains only 250 grams (8.8 oz) of ATP, turns over its own body weight in ATP each day.
ATP is used as a substrate in signal transduction pathways by kinases that phosphorylate proteins and lipids, as well as by adenylate cyclase, which uses ATP to produce the second messenger molecule cyclic AMP.
Presently (2012), HIV-1 strains are divided into four groups, including group M (major) with subtypes A through K, group O (outlier), group N (non-M or O), and group P. HIV-2 is divided into subtypes A through E. Occasionally, two viruses of different subtypes can "cross react" and blend their genetic material to create a new hybrid HIV virus.
However, many of these new strains do not survive for long.
Studies have also shown that the core proteins of HIV-1 and HIV-2 display frequent cross-reactivity whereas the envelope proteins are more type-specific.
Antibiotic macrolide produced by Streptomyces antibioticus.
7-hydroxyquetiapine is one of four metabolites of quetiapine.
Quetiapine is a dibenzothiazepine used as an antipsychotic as well as for treatment of manic episodes of bipolar disorder and major depressive disorder where antidepressant monotherapy has had sub-optimal response.
The HFE gene (hemochromatosis) is located on chromosome 6p21.3.
The protein encoded by this gene is a membrane protein that is similar to MHC class I-type proteins and associates with beta2-microglobulin (beta2M).
It is thought that this protein functions to regulate iron absorption by regulating the interaction of the transferrin receptor with transferrin.
The iron storage disorder, hereditary haemochromatosis, is a recessive genetic disorder that results from defects in this gene.
At least nine alternatively spliced variants have been described for this gene.
Additional variants have been found but their full-length nature has not been determined.
Dibekacin is an aminoglycoside antibiotic.
It has been used in combination with sulbenicillin
A coffee bean is the seed of the coffee plant (the pit inside the red or purple fruit).
The fruits, coffee cherries or coffee berries, most commonly contain two stones with their flat sides together.
In a crop of coffee, a small percentage of cherries contain a single bean, instead of the usual two.
This is called a peaberry.
Coffee beans consist mostly of endosperm that contains 0.8 - 2.5 % caffeine, which is one of the main reasons the plants are cultivated.
As coffee is one of the world's most widely consumed beverages, coffee beans are a major cash crop, and an important export product for some countries.
It is considered a regularly consumed beverage in the United States - as popular as soft drinks and even water - and because of the volume consumed, it is here that coffee is highest in demand.
Myelin basic protein (MBP) is important in the process of myelination of nerves in the central nervous system (CNS).
MBP was initially sequenced in 1979 after isolation from myelin membranes.
Since that time, knockout mice deficient in MBP have been developed which showed decreased amounts of CNS myelination and a progressive disorder characterized by tremors, seizures, and early death.
The gene for MBP is on chromosome 18; the protein localizes to the CNS and to various cells of the hematopoietic system.
The pool of MBP in the central nervous system is very diverse, with several splice variants being expressed and a large number of post-translational modifications on the protein, which include phosphorylation, methylation, deamidation and citrullination.
Interest in MBP has centered on its role in demyelinating diseases, particularly multiple sclerosis (MS).
Powdered exudate from various Acacia species, especially A. senegal (Leguminosae).
It forms mucilage or syrup in water.
Gum arabic is used as a suspending agent, excipient, and emulsifier in foods and pharmaceuticals.
Candida albicans is an opportunistic fungal pathogen that can cause severe infections in immunosuppressed patients.
The its genes are conserved across candida species, but specific internal sequences have enough variation to be able to distinguish amongst species.
One such internal its sequence is specific for C albicans, and detecting this gene sequence in a clinical specimen can help identify C albicans as the causative organism in a particular infection.
Tartrate resistant acid phosphatase is detected in the serum in raised amounts accompanying pathological bone resorption.
2002 April; 55(2): 65-72.
A Hepatic Iron Index (HII) is not calculated for patients less than 14 years.
An HII less than 1.0 is consistent with normal iron accumulation.
An HII 1.0 through 1.9 is consistent with mild iron accumulation such as in heterozygous hemochromatosis or alchoholic liver disease.
An HII greater than 1.9 is consistent with iron overload such as in homozygous hemochromatosis, multiple transfusions, porphyria cutanea tarda, and cirrhotic liver disease.
The HII will decrease with chronic blood loss or phlebotomy.
The Guinea Pig (unrelated to Pigs-the name may be due to this rodent's shrill squeal), native to South America, has been used as a domesticated food source for hundreds of years in Ecuador, Peru and Bolivia.
Guinea Pigs have also been invaluable in research laboratories, where they have been used in fields such as nutrition, pathology, genetics, and toxicology.
The Guinea Pig is also an excellent pet, much handled by children due to its gentleness and sociability.
Cavia porcellus are not known in the wild (unless in a feral state), but domesticated Guinea Pigs are now found worldwide in captivity.
Asthma, allergic rhinitis and allergic conjunctivitis occurs frequently following sensitisation to Guinea Pig allergen.
Argininemia, also called arginase deficiency, is an autosomal recessive urea cycle disorder where a deficiency of the enzyme arginase causes a build up of arginine and ammonia in the blood.
Ammonia, which is formed when proteins are broken down in the body, is toxic if levels become too high.
The nervous system is especially sensitive to the effects of excess ammonia.
Elevated level of Dicarboxyoleylcarnitine (C18:1-DC) is a marker for Carnitine-acylcarnitine translocase (CACT), Carnitine palmitoyltransferase II (CPT11), and very long chain acyl-CoA dehydrogenase (VLCAD) deficiencies.
Power is defined as the rate at which energy is transfered from one place to another or transformed from one form to another.
Power is expressed in the SI unit watt (W), named in honor of the Scottish engineer James Watt.
A Watt is equivalent to one joule (J) per second (s), W=J/s.
The commonly used measure of engine power, the horsepower, is approximately 746 W.
The highest level of education attained.
Glucagon, a peptide hormone secreted by the pancreas, raises blood glucose levels.
Its effect is opposite that of insulin, which lowers blood glucose levels.
The pancreas releases glucagon when blood sugar (glucose) levels fall too low.
Glucagon causes the liver to convert stored glycogen into glucose, which is released into the bloodstream.
High blood glucose levels stimulate the release of insulin.
Insulin allows glucose to be taken up and used by insulin-dependent tissues.
Thus, glucagon and insulin are part of a feedback system that keeps blood glucose levels at a stable level.
Glucagon belongs to a family of several other related hormones.
Abnormally-elevated levels of glucagon may be caused by pancreatic tumors, such as glucagonoma, symptoms of which include necrolytic migratory erythema, reduced amino acids, and hyperglycemia.
It may occur alone or in the context of multiple endocrine neoplasia type 1.
One of the CARBONIC ANHYDRASE INHIBITORS that is sometimes effective against absence seizures.
It is sometimes useful also as an adjunct in the treatment of tonic-clonic, myoclonic, and atonic seizures, particularly in women whose seizures occur or are exacerbated at specific times in the menstrual cycle.
However, its usefulness is transient often because of rapid development of tolerance.
Its antiepileptic effect may be due to its inhibitory effect on brain carbonic anhydrase, which leads to an increased transneuronal chloride gradient, increased chloride current, and increased inhibition.
(From Smith and Reynard, Textbook of Pharmacology, 1991, p337)
Poppy is an annual herb native to south-eastern Europe and western Asia.
There are wild and cultivated varieties.
The species is cultivated extensively in many countries, especially in Asia and Central and South America.
Poppy seed commonly induces symptoms of food allergy in sensitised individuals.
1-Methylhistidine is an amino acid metabolite and is a component of the dietary peptide anserine.
Low levels may be due to inadequate methyl group transfer and result in low histidine levels.
Methyl-transferase enzymes require Vitamin B12 and folate, so deficiencies in these may lead to decreased 1-Methylhistidine and histidine levels.
These pungent rhizomes of the Zingiberaceae family of herbaceaous pennenials probably originate in southern China but are now cultivated all over southern Asia (50% of all Ginger is produced in India), in Latin America and in Africa.
Ginger is one of the world's most important spices.
Ginger may uncommonly induce symptoms of food allergy in sensitised individuals.
Symptoms include dermatitis, contact dermatitis, eczema, and pompholyx eczema.
Less than 10% of all adverse reactions to drugs have immunological background, and only a part of those are IgE-mediated.
Heparinoids are glycosaminoglycans which are derivatives of heparin.
A general term for the complete or partial loss of the ability to hear from one or both ears.
Distance from the Anterior Nasal Spine to Pogonion
The UBE3A gene (ubiquitin protein ligase E3A) is located on chromosome 15q11.2.
This gene encodes an E3 ubiquitin-protein ligase, part of the ubiquitin protein degradation system.
This imprinted gene is maternally expressed in brain and biallelically expressed in other tissues.
Maternally inherited deletion of this gene causes Angelman Syndrome, characterized by severe motor and intellectual retardation, ataxia, hypotonia, epilepsy, absence of speech, and characteristic facies.
The protein also interacts with the E6 protein of human papillomavirus types 16 and 18, resulting in ubiquitination and proteolysis of tumor protein p53.
Alternative splicing of this gene results in three transcript variants encoding three isoforms with different N-termini.
Additional transcript variants have been described, but their full length nature has not been determined.
BCL-2 immunopositivity has been linked to the emergence of androgen independence in metastatic prostate cancer.
A trace element with the atomic symbol B, atomic number 5, and atomic weight 10.81.
Boron-10, an isotope of boron, is used as a neutron absorber in BORON NEUTRON CAPTURE THERAPY.
Alanine aminotransferase (ALT) is an enzyme produced primarily in the liver but are also found in the heart, skeletal muscles, pancreas and kidney cells.
The main function of ALT is to convert alanine into pyruvate.
ALT is released into the bloodstream when cells containing it are damaged.
Increased levels of ALT in the blood provide an early indicator of liver damage.
ALT is often measured with aspartate aminotransferase (AST) as part of a liver panel.
High levels of ALT could indicate hepatitis, obstructed bile ducts, liver tumors, cirrhosis, alcoholism or other liver disorders.
The GAA gene is located on chromosome 17q25.3 and encodes acid alpha-1,4-glucosidase, a lysosomal enzyme involved in the degradation of glycogen.
GAA mutations are associated with glycogen storage disease II, which in its infantile form is known as Pompe disease, an autosomal recessive disorder associated with hypotonia and cardiomyopathy.
The juvenile and adult forms of glycogen storage disease II primarily affect skeletal muscle.
A glycoprotein of molecular weight 18,000 was purified from saline extracts of cured tobacco leaves.
Immunochemically similar material was demonstrated in, and purified from, cigarette smoke condensate and cigarette smoke (Becker).
A semi-synthetic macrolide antibiotic structurally related to ERYTHROMYCIN.
It has been used in the treatment of Mycobacterium avium intracellulare infections, toxoplasmosis, and cryptosporidiosis.
Prazepam is a benzodiazepine derivative drug.
It possesses anxiolytic, anticonvulsant, sedative and skeletal muscle relaxant properties.
Prazepam is a prodrug for desmethyldiazepam which is an active metabolite of prazepam.
Desmethyldiazepam is responsible for the therapeutic effects of prazepam Prazepam is marketed for anxiolytic use under the trade names Centrac, Centrax, Demetrin, Lysanxia, Mono Demetrin, Pozapam, Prasepine, Prazene, Reapam and Trepidan.
Calcium, the most abundant mineral in the body, is found in foods, available as a dietary supplement, and present in some medicines (such as antacids).
Calcium is required for vascular contraction and vasodilation, muscle function, nerve transmission, intracellular signaling and hormonal secretion, though less than 1% of total body calcium is needed to support these metabolic functions.
Serum calcium is very tightly regulated and does not fluctuate with changes in dietary intakes; the body uses bone tissue as a reservoir for, and source of calcium, to maintain constant concentrations of calcium in blood, muscle, and intercellular fluids.
The remaining 99% of the body's calcium supply is stored in the bones and teeth where it supports their structure and function.
Milk, yogurt, and cheese are rich sources of calcium.
Nondairy sources include vegetables, such as Chinese cabbage, kale, and broccoli.
The SMN2 gene (survival of motor neuron 2, centromeric) is located on chromosome 5q13.2.
This gene is part of a 500 kb inverted duplication on chromosome 5q13.
This duplicated region contains at least four genes and repetitive elements which make it prone to rearrangements and deletions.
The repetitiveness and complexity of the sequence have also caused difficulty in determining the organization of this genomic region.
The telomeric and centromeric copies of this gene are nearly identical and encode the same protein.
While mutations in the telomeric copy are associated with spinal muscular atrophy, mutations in this gene, the centromeric copy, do not lead to disease.
This gene may be a modifier of disease caused by mutation in the telomeric copy.
The critical sequence difference between the two genes is a single nucleotide in exon 7, which is thought to be an exon splice enhancer.
Note that the nine exons of both the telomeric and centromeric copies are designated historically as exon 1, 2a, 2b, and 3-8.
It is thought that gene conversion events may involve the two genes, leading to varying copy numbers of each gene.
The full length protein encoded by this gene localizes to both the cytoplasm and the nucleus.
Within the nucleus, the protein localizes to subnuclear bodies called gems which are found near coiled bodies containing high concentrations of small ribonucleoproteins (snRNPs).
This protein forms heteromeric complexes with proteins such as SIP1 and GEMIN4, and also interacts with several proteins known to be involved in the biogenesis of snRNPs, such as hnRNP U protein and the small nucleolar RNA binding protein.
Four transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms have been described.
Galactosylhydroxylysine is released during bone resorption and is a sensitive and specific marker of bone resorption.
Urinary galactosyl hydroxylysine/creatinine ratio is a quantitative marker of the activity of Paget's bone disease.
Aucoumea klaineana (Angouma, Gaboon, or Okoumé) is a tree in the family Burseraceae, native to equatorial west Africa in Gabon, the Republic of the Congo, and Rio Muni.
It is a medium-sized hardwood tree growing to 30-40 m tall, rarely larger, with a trunk 1-2.5 m diameter above the often large basal buttresses.
The tree generally grows in small stands, the roots of the trees intertwined with neighboring trees.
Calcidiol+Calciferol is used to assess patients' vitamin D status, evaluate hypo and hypercalcemia and to investigate the causes of osteomalacia and rickets.
Also useful in monitoring vitamin D replacement therapy.
Vitamin D is the principal regulator of calcium homeostasis.
It is particularly important in skeletal development and bone mineralization.
Vitamin D is a prohormone because it has no hormone activity itself, but is converted to a molecule which does.
The active form of vitamin D is 1alpha, 25-dihydroxyvitamin D or 1,25(OH2)D (when D is used without a subscript it refers to either D2 or D3).
The two forms of vitamin D used for nutritional supplementation are the secosterols ergocalciferol (vitamin D2) and cholecalciferol (vitamin D3).
Tetrachlorodiphenylethane is a colorless, crystalline chlorinated hydrocarbon pesticide that is toxic when inhaled, absorbed by the skin, or ingested.
Individuals exposed to Tetrachlorodiphenylethane may experience the following symptoms: anorexia, nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, dermatitis, apathy from mild dulling of interest to profound psychotic depression, gynecomastia, hematuria, leukopenia, thrombocytopenia and lassitude.
Symptoms of chronic exposure to Tetrachlorodiphenylethane include atrophy of the adrenal cortex and liver damage.
Tetrachlorodiphenylethane emits toxic fumes when heated which include chlorides, carbon monoxide, carbon dioxide and hydrogen chloride gas.
Tetrachlorodiphenylethane is toxic to aquatic wildlife in low concentrations.
The temperature setting is the goal temperature for the environment.
The set temperature can be automatically compared to the actual temperature to adjust the amount of heat provided, such as within an infant incubator.
A group of hydroxycorticosteroids bearing a hydroxy group at the 17-position.
Urinary excretion of these compounds is used as an index of adrenal function.
They are used systemically in the free alcohol form, but with esterification of the hydroxy groups, topical effectiveness is increased.
Bovine herpesvirus 1 (BHV-1) is a virus of the family Herpesviridae that causes several diseases worldwide in cattle, including rhinotracheitis, vaginitis, balanoposthitis, abortion, conjunctivitis, and enteritis.
BHV-1 is also a contributing factor in shipping fever.
It is spread through sexual contact, artificial insemination, and aerosol transmission.
Like other herpesviruses, BHV-1 causes a lifelong latent infection and shedding of the virus.
The sciatic nerve and trigeminal nerve are the sites of latency.
There is a vaccine available which reduces the severity and incidence of disease.
The respiratory disease caused by BHV-1 is commonly known as infectious bovine rhinotracheitis.
Symptoms include fever, discharge from the nose, cough, difficulty breathing, and loss of appetite.
Ulcers commonly occur in the mouth and nose.
Mortality may reach 10 percent.
The genital disease causes infectious pustular vulvovaginitis in cows and infectious balanoposthitis in bulls.
In biochemistry and nutrition, monounsaturated fats are fatty acids that have a single double bond in the fatty acid chain and all of the remainder of the carbon atoms in the chain are single-bonded.
By contrast, polyunsaturated fatty acids have more than one double bond.
Fatty acids are long-chained molecules having a methyl group at one end and a carboxylic acid group at the other end.
Fatty acid fluidity increases with increasing number of double bonds.
Therefore, monounsaturated fatty acids have a higher melting temperature than polyunsaturated fatty acids but lower than saturated fatty acids.
Monounsaturated fatty acids are liquids at room temperature and semisolid or solid when refrigerated.
Trovafloxacin (sold as Trovan and Turvel) is a broad spectrum antibiotic that inhibits the uncoiling of supercoiled DNA in various bacteria by blocking the activity of DNA gyrase and topoisomerase IV.It was withdrawn from the market due to the risk of hepatotoxicity.
It had better gram-positive bacterial coverage and less gram-negative coverage than the previous fluoroquinolones.
An alpha-2 adrenergic agonist that has both central and peripheral nervous system effects.
Its primary clinical use is as an antihypertensive agent.
The DMD gene (dystrophin) is located on chromosome Xp21.2.
The dystrophin gene is the largest gene found in nature, measuring 2.4 Mb.
The gene was identified through a positional cloning approach, targeted at the isolation of the gene responsible for Duchenne (DMD) and Becker (BMD) Muscular Dystrophies.
DMD is a recessive, fatal, X-linked disorder occurring at a frequency of about 1 in 3,500 new-born males.
BMD is a milder allelic form.
In general, DMD patients carry mutations which cause premature translation termination (nonsense or frame shift mutations), while in BMD patients dystrophin is reduced either in molecular weight (derived from in-frame deletions) or in expression level.
The dystrophin gene is highly complex, containing at least eight independent, tissue-specific promoters and two polyA-addition sites.
Furthermore, dystrophin RNA is differentially spliced, producing a range of different transcripts, encoding a large set of protein isoforms.
Dystrophin (as encoded by the Dp427 transcripts) is a large, rod-like cytoskeletal protein which is found at the inner surface of muscle fibers.
Dystrophin is part of the dystrophin-glycoprotein complex (DGC), which bridges the inner cytoskeleton (F-actin) and the extra-cellular matrix.
CD79 (Cluster of Differentiation 79) is a transmembrane protein that forms a complex with the B-cell receptor (BCR) and generates a signal following recognition of antigen by the BCR.
CD79 is composed of two distinct chains called CD79A and CD79B (formerly known as Ig-alpha and Ig-beta); these form a heterodimer on the surface of a B cell stabilized by disulfide bonding.
CD79a and CD79b are both members of the immunoglobulin superfamily.
Human CD79a is encoded by the mb-1 gene that is located on chromosome 19, and CD79b is encoded by the B29 gene that located on chromosome 17.
Both CD79 chains contain an immunoreceptor tyrosine-based activation motif (ITAM) in their intracellular tails that they use to propagate a signal in a B cell, in a similar manner to CD3 generated signal tranduction observed during T cell receptor activation on T cells.
Vasoactive intestinal peptide also known as the vasoactive intestinal polypeptide or VIP is a peptide hormone containing 29 amino acid residues that is produced in many tissues of vertebrates including the gut, pancreas and suprachiasmatic nuclei of the hypothalamus in the brain.
VIP stimulates contractility in the heart, causes vasodilation, increases glycogenolysis, lowers arterial blood pressure and relaxes the smooth muscle of trachea, stomach and gall bladder.
In humans, the vasoactive intestinal peptide is encoded by the VIP gene.
VIP is overproduced in VIPoma.
Can be associated with Multiple Endocrine Neoplasia Type 1 (Pituitary, parathyroid and pancreatic tumors).
Ancylostoma is a genus that includes some species of hookworm.
The apple guava or common guava (Psidium guajava; known as Goiaba in Brazil and Guayava in parts of The Americas) is an evergreen shrub or small tree native to Mexico, the Caribbean, and Central and South America.
1p36 deletion syndrome is caused by the deletion of several genes in the short arm of chromosome 1 and is associated with severe cognitive delay, seizure disorder, weak muscle tone, swallowing difficulty, and distinctive facial features.
The general population risk of 1p36 deletion is about 1 in 5,000 - 10,000 live births, and does not change with maternal age.
Fetal risk of having 1p36 deletion syndrome can be derived from the general population risk as well as prenatal genetic testing of fetal DNA.
4-Hydroxybenzoic acid, or p-hydroxybenzoic acid, is a phenolic derivative of benzoic acid.
It is a white crystalline solid that is slightly soluble in water and chloroform but more soluble polar organic solvents such as alcohols and acetone.
4-Hydroxybenzoic acid is primarily known as the basis for the preparation of its esters, known as parabens, which are used as preservatives in cosmetics.
It is isomeric with 2-hydroxybenzoic acid, known as salicylic acid, a precursor to aspirin.
Neuron specific enolase testing detects and monitors tumors with neuroendocrine properities such as neuroblastomas, neurogangliomas, small cell lung carcinomas and some seminomas.
Ustilago tritici is a plant pathogen.
Bet v 1 from a family of proteins related to plant defense is related to similar compounds from many fruits (apple, cherry apricot etc.) as well as celery and carrots.
In patients with birch allergies this antigen may the root cause of allergies from many foods.
Recombinant Bet V 1 (rBet V1) is used for birch allergy testing and is being used in trials of desensitization.
Although there are many Palms that we call "Date Palms" (i.e., Pygmy Date Palm, Senegal Date Palm, Canary Island Date Palm, etc.), Phoenix dactylifera is the "true" Date Palm from which the tasty fruit is obtained.
The fruit may be used fresh, dried, or as a syrup, yielding food products such as Date vinegar, Date chutney or sweet pickle, Date paste for bakery products, and flavouring for oranges, bananas and almonds.
Date syrup is used as a sugar substitute.
Food allergy to fruit of the Date Palm tree is possible, but reactions are not common.
Immediate hypersensitivity reaction: pharyngeal pruritis, oedema of the lips, dyspnoea, wheezing, dysphagia and dysphonia have been reported.
Norton D., McLaren R., Exton-Smith A.N..
An Investigation of Geriatric Nursing Problems in Hospital.
London: National Corporation for the Care of Old People, 1962.
Alanine+Beta Alanine+Sarcosine is a secondary marker for Pyruvate carboxylase deficiency and Primary lactic acidemia (various types).
Food allergen mix 71 (fx70, FP70) detects caraway (f265), cardamon (f267), mace (f266), and clove (f268) IgE antibodies.
Testing for IgE antibodies may be used to help diagnose an allergic disease or the cause of an anaphylactic episode in a patient.
Enzyme and fluorescent-based assays, which were preceded by the RAST test (Radio-AllergoSorbent Test), are performed to detect allergen-specific IgE in the patient's serum.
Gastric tubes are tubes inserted through the nose and into the stomach.
The tube is used for diagnostic and treatment procedures.
Diagnostic procedures include the evaluation of upper gastrointestinal (GI) bleeding, the aspiration of gastric fluid content, the identification of the esophagus and stomach on a chest x-ray, and the administration of radiographic contrast to the GI tract.
Therapeutic use of the GI tube includes gastric decompression, relief of symptoms and bowel rest after small bowel obstruction, aspiration of gastric content after recent ingestion of toxic material, administration of medication, feeding, and bowel irrigation.
Fluid output is the amount of fluid obtained by aspirating the contents of the stomach through the gastric tube.
Syndecan 1 (CD138) is a proteoglycan.
The protein encoded by this gene is a transmembrane (type I) heparan sulfate proteoglycan and is a member of the syndecan proteoglycan family.
The syndecans mediate cell binding, cell signaling, and cytoskeletal organization and syndecan receptors are required for internalization of the HIV-1 tat protein.
The syndecan-1 protein functions as an integral membrane protein and participates in cell proliferation, cell migration and cell-matrix interactions via its receptor for extracellular matrix proteins.
Altered syndecan-1 expression has been detected in several different tumor types.
While several transcript variants may exist for this gene, the full-length natures of only two have been described to date.
These two represent the major variants of this gene and encode the same protein.
Hemosiderin or haemosiderin is an abnormal microscopic pigment found in the human body.
Hemosiderin is composed of iron oxide and can accumulate in different organs in various diseases.
Iron is required by many of the chemical reactions in the body but is toxic when not properly contained.
Thus, many methods of iron storage have developed.
Humans typically store iron within a protein called ferritin.
The form of iron in ferritin is iron(III) oxyhydroxide.
By complexing with ferritin, the iron is made water soluble.
Several diseases result in deposition of iron(III) oxyhydroxide in tissues in an insoluble form.
These deposits of iron are called hemosiderin.
Although these deposits often cause no symptoms, they can lead to organ damage.
The sodium salt of BENZOIC ACID.
It is used as an antifungal preservative in pharmaceutical preparations and foods.
It may also be used as a test for liver function.
Indole is an aromatic heterocyclic organic compound.
It has a bicyclic structure, consisting of a six-membered benzene ring fused to a five-membered nitrogen-containing pyrrole ring.
Indole is a popular component of fragrances and the precursor to many pharmaceuticals.
Compounds that contain an indole ring are called indoles.
Notably, the indolic amino acid tryptophan is the precursor of the neurotransmitter serotonin.
Nicomorphine (Vilan, Subellan, Gevilan, MorZet) is the 3,6-dinicotinate ester of morphine.
It is a strong opioid agonist analgesic two to three times as potent as morphine with a side effect profile similar to that of dihydromorphine, morphine, and diamorphine.
The 3,6-diesters of morphine are drugs with more rapid and complete central nervous system penetration due to increased lipid solubility and other structural considerations.
The prototype for this subgroup of semi-synthetic opiates is heroin and the group also includes dipropanoylmorphine, diacetyldihydromorphine, disalicylmorphine and others.
Whilst this produces an enhanced "bang" when the drug is administered intravenously, it cannot be distinguished from morphine via other routes, although the different side effect profile, including lower incidence of nausea, is very apparent.
Bifidobacterium is a genus of Gram-positive, non-motile, often branched anaerobic bacteria inhabiting the gastrointestinal tract and vagina.
Bifidobacteria are one of the major genera of bacteria that make up the gut flora, the bacteria that reside in the colon.
Bifidobacteria aid in digestion, are associated with a lower incidence of allergies and also prevent some forms of tumor growth.
Some bifidobacteria are used as probiotics.
Equine influenza (Horse flu) is the disease caused by strains of Influenza A that are enzootic in horse species.
Equine influenza occurs globally, and is caused by two main strains of virus: equine-1 (H7N7) and equine-2 (H3N8).
The disease has a nearly 100% infection rate in an unvaccinated horse population with no prior exposure to the virus.
While equine influenza is historically not known to affect humans, the impact of an outbreak would have been devastating.
Since people heavily relied upon horses for communication (postal service), military (cavalry) and general transport, the social and economic impact of widespread equine disease would have been devastating.
However, in modern times the ramifications of equine influenza are most clear in the modern racing industry.
Measures circulating epithelial cells that are assumed to be carcinoma cells.
In the context of breast cancer, a count of greater than 5 circulating tumor calls per 7.5 mL predicts a significantly shorter survival than those with a less then 5.
Test is based on immunologic stain for Epithelial Cell Adhesion Molecule (EpCAM) antigen which are manetically tagged to concentrate them, then stained with CD45+ Alophycocyan (CD45-APC), anti cytokeratin phycoerythrin 8, 18, and 19 (CK-PE) and PAPI to identify the nucleus.
The goal is to find epithelium derived cells.
EpCAM is not always present in tumor cells and it is not completely specific so CK-PE is needed to confirm epitelial, PAPI to verify that the object is a cell not depre and CD45 to detect and exclude white cells.
In terms of markers, the cells of interest are those that EpCAM+ CK-PE+ PAPI+ (to be sure that they are cells) and CD45-APC negative (to exclude white cells.
Counts from this manufacturer are reportes per 7.5ml.
At present only one product is approved by the FDA is ."CellSearch™ system (Veridex), and it is offered by all of the major laboratories.
As of May 2011, It has only been approved for metastatic, breast, prostate and colorectal cancer.
The test has not specificity for a particular cancer, but the cut off for deciding worse prognosis differs by organ.
Other mechanisms for measuring Circulating Tumor cells, exist, most internally developed by laboratories and not fully automated.
Another company has an experimental system that does not depend upon magnetically tagged EpCAM for a first pass cut- claims to be able to count more cells (30 cc of blood), and may be more sensitive.
Lipoxygenase (LOX) is an enzyme that catalyzes polyunsaturated fatty acids such as arachidonic acid to form hyperperoxides through the eicosanoid pathway.
The derived hyperperoxides or eicosanoids are signaling lipids that regulate a group of homeostatic and inflammatory processes.
LOX is present in immune, epithelial, and tumor cells and can lead to inflammation, skin disorders, and tumorigenesis.
Patients who are sensitized to pollen can develop seasonal allergic rhinitis (SAR) and have been found to have increased LOX in the nasal mucosa.
Butylone, is an illicit designer drug and substance of abuse, also known as β-keto-N-methylbenzodioxolylbutanamine and (bk-MBDB).
One of the drugs in a family of synthetic cathinones (street name 'bath salts'), it is an entactogen, psychedelic, and stimulant of the phenethylamine chemical class, and the β-keto analogue of MBDB.
The effects of butylone have not been described in any scientific literature, however, some drug forums report personal experiences with butylone that are similar to methylone and ethylone: euphoria, stimulation, mental sharpness and a warm safe feeling.
Ingesting or snorting bath salts containing synthetic stimulants can cause chest pains, increased blood pressure, increased heart rate, agitation, hallucinations, extreme paranoia, and delusions.
Propoxur is a white, crystalline carbamate and cholinesterase inhibitor insecticide used to combat mosquitoes, flies, ants, fleas and ticks on pets, mites, ticks, cockroaches, aphids, leafhoppers and snails.
It is used on food crops, lawns, flowering plants, in private homes, and public buildings.
Propoxur has largely taken the place of Dichlorodiphenyltrichloroethane (DDT) when treating black flies and mosquitoes.
Propoxur is toxic to humans when it is absorbed through the skin, inhaled, or ingested.
Symptoms of poisoning include nausea, vomiting, abdominal cramps, sweating, diarrhea, excessive salivation, weakness, imbalance, blurring of vision, breathing difficulties, increased blood pressure, loss of urinary and bowel control, and death from respiratory system failure.
It is extremely toxic to birds, honey bees, and fish.
Propoxur is not toxic to plants.
When heated, dangerously toxic fumes are produced.
Sparfloxacin (spar FLOX a sin), trade names Zagam and Zagam Respipac, is a fluoroquinolone antibiotic used in the treatment of bacterial infections.
It has a controversial safety profile.
CD19 + Kappa + Cells are used to evaluate immune status, lymphocytic leukemias, multiple myeloma and lymphomas.
A genus of the family CHLAMYDIACEAE comprising gram-negative non CHLAMYDIA TRACHOMATIS-like species infecting vertebrates.
Chlamydophila do not produce detectable quantities of glycogen.
The type species is CHLAMYDOPHILA PSITTACI.
Reticulocyte hemoglobin distribution width (HDWr) is a measure of the variability in reticulocyte hemoglobin concentration.
Along with other reticulocyte indices, HDWr can be used to monitor treatment efficacy for certain types of anemia, such as magnesium therapy in sickle cell disease.
HDWr is analogous to red cell hemoglobin concentration distribution width (HDW), and HDWr tends to be greater than HDW, indicating greater variability in reticulocyte hemoglobin concentration compared to that of red blood cells.
An element of the alkaline earth group of metals.
It has an atomic symbol Ba, atomic number 56, and atomic weight 138.
All of its acid-soluble salts are poisonous.
Cherry may cause oral allergy syndrome.
In a group of 100 patients with confirmed allergy to fruits and vegetables, 13 were shown to react to cherries.
The prevalence of sensitivity to peach and plum in the same group was 30 and 6 respectively.
Skin tests of patients with clinical history of cherry sensitivity with fresh fruit was positive in all five tested.
Commercial extract gave a positive reaction only in two.
Dose-dependent basophil histamine release was obtained with cherry in birch pollen sensitive-patients with fruit allergy.
Dau c 1 is a 16 kDa (or 18 kDa (3)) protein, a Bet v 1-homologue, a major allergen.
Tetracycline, a broad-spectrum naphthacene antibiotic produced by the streptomyces bacterium, is used against many gram negative and gram positive bacteria.
It inhibits amino acyl tRNA binding during protein systhesis and is commonly used to treat acne.
It is sold under the brand names Sumycin®, Tetracyn®, and Panmycin®, among others.
Actisite® is a thread-like fiber form, used in dental applications.
It is also used to produce several semi-synthetic derivatives, which together are known as the tetracycline antibiotic group.
It works by inhibiting the action of the prokaryotic 30S ribosome.
Toxicity may be due to the inactivation of mitochondrial 30S ribosomes in host cells.
Rickettsia sibirica is a species of Rickettsia.
It can cause North Asian tick typhus.
A freshwater fish used as an experimental organism and for food.
This genus of the family Cichlidae (CICHLIDS) inhabits Central and South America (one species extends north into Texas), West Indies, Africa, Madagascar, Syria, and coastal India.
Cefaclor is a semisynthetic β-lactam antibiotic drug belonging to the cephalosporin subgroup.
Like all β-lactams, cefaclor readily reacts with tissue proteins in vivo, thereby sensitizing susceptible individuals.
The allergenic determinants (epitopes) of cephalosporins such as cefaclor are not fully known.
This is a consequence of the unstable structures which are formed upon reaction with lysine amino groups in proteins.
The primary unstable conjugates are rapidly degraded and transformed into structures where the six-membered dihydrothiazine ring is absent.
Immediate reactions (maximum 1 hour after drug intake) have the highest probability of being IgE-mediated.
Clinical pictures typical for immediate reactions to β-lactams are urticaria, with or without angioedema, and anaphylaxis.
The patient's home-setting circumstances reflecting the status of the accommodations, living situation, and environment.
Gatifloxacin sold under the brand names Gatiflo, Tequin and Zymar, is an antibiotic of the fourth-generation fluoroquinolone family, that like other members of that family, inhibits the bacterial enzymes DNA gyrase and topoisomerase IV.
Bristol-Myers Squibb introduced Gatifloxacin in 1999 under the proprietary name Tequin for the treatment of respiratory tract infections, having licensed the medication from Kyorin Pharmaceutical Company of Japan.
Allergan produces an eye-drop formulation called Zymar.
Found on B-lymphoblasts and T-lymphoblasts Associated with Lymphoblastic lymphoma, B-cell ALL and T-cell ALL
A metabolite of primidone.
Carumonam (INN) is a monobactam antibiotic.
Scrapie is a fatal, degenerative disease affecting the central nervous system of sheep and goats, in the same class of diseases as BSE in cattle and Chronic Wasting Disease in elk and deer.
Transmission of the classical scrapie agent is not completely understood but apparently healthy sheep infected with the agent can transmit disease.
The infecting agent or prion is a mal-formed version (PrPsc) of a normal protein (PrP) found in all animals.
The malformation of the normal prion proteins occurs when they are exposed to the mal-formed version of the protein.
The normal prion proteins may be more or less susceptible to malformation when they are exposed to the mal-formed protein based on their genetic makeup.
Resistance or susceptibility has been linked to the presence of certain amino acids at various locations within the normal protein.
Genotyping determines the amino acids present at specific locations or codons in the prion protein.
These are reported as a pair of one character amino acid codes such as RR, RH, QQ, etc.
This testing does not diagnosis Scrapie, but is an important tool for selecting genetically resistant animals for breeding and eradication.
Codons associated with susceptibility/resistance to scrapie include codon 112, 136, 141, 154 and 171.
Codon 171 codes for either arginine ®, glutamine (Q), histidine (H) or lysine (K).
Resistance or susceptibility has been associated with several different codons but in the US, codon 171 is believed to be the major determinant of relative scrapie susceptiblity.
The presence of R at codon 171 has been associated with increased resistance to scrapie.
The presence of Q at codon 171 has been associated with increased susceptibility to scrpaie.
The presence of H or K has not been closely associated with resistance or susceptibility and are therefore assumed to be susceptible and equivalent to Q for purposes of the eradication program.
A substituted benzamide used for its prokinetic properties.
It is used in the management of gastroesophageal reflux disease, functional dyspepsia, and other disorders associated with impaired gastrointestinal motility.
(Martindale The Extra Pharmacopoeia, 31st ed)
Dihydrotestosterone (DHT) (Full name: 5Dihydrotestosterone, abbreviating to 5DHT; INN:androstanolone) is a biologically active metabolite of testosterone.
Dihydrotestosterone is also an androgen with 30 times the potency of testosterone due to its greater affinity for the androgen receptor.
Significance: DHT is produced by males in utero and is responsible for the formation of male gender specific characteristics.
DHT is also an important contributor to other male characteristics such as facial and body hair growth, and deepening of the voice.
2-Aminoisobutyric acid, or α-aminoisobutyric acid (AIB) or α-methylalanine or 2-methylalanine, is an amino acid with the structural formula is H2N-C(CH3)2-COOH.
It is contained in some antibiotics of fungal origin, eg. alamethicin and some lantibiotics.
It is not one of the proteinogenic amino acids and rather rare in nature.
α-Aminoisobutyric acid is a strong helix inducer in peptides.
Its oligomers form 3-10 helices.
Argininosuccinate is a primary marker for Argininosuccinic aciduria.
An amino sugar formed when glucose non-enzymatically reacts with the N-terminal amino group of proteins.
The fructose moiety is derived from glucose by the "classical" Amadori rearrangement.
The OPA3 gene (optic atrophy 3 (autosomal recessive, with chorea and spastic paraplegia)) is located on chromosome 19q13.32.
The mouse ortholog of this protein co-purifies with the mitochondrial inner membrane.
Mutations in this gene have been shown to result in 3-methylglutaconic aciduria type III and autosomal dominant optic atrophy and cataract.
Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
Cathepsin L1 is a protein that in humans is encoded by the CTSL1 gene.
The protein encoded by this gene is a lysosomal cysteine proteinase that plays a major role in intracellular protein catabolism.
Its substrates include collagen and elastin, as well as alpha-1 protease inhibitor, a major controlling element of neutrophil elastase activity.
The encoded protein has been implicated in several pathologic processes, including myofibril necrosis in myopathies and in myocardial ischemia, and in the renal tubular response to proteinuria.
This protein, which is a member of the peptidase C1 family, is a dimer composed of disulfide-linked heavy and light chains, both produced from a single protein precursor.
At least two transcript variants encoding the same protein have been found for this gene.
The ASS1 gene (argininosuccinate synthase 1) is located on chromosome 9q34.1.
The protein encoded by this gene catalyzes the penultimate step of the arginine biosynthetic pathway.
There are approximately 10 to 14 copies of this gene including the pseudogenes scattered across the human genome, among which the one located on chromosome 9 appears to be the only functional gene for argininosuccinate synthetase.
Mutations in the chromosome 9 copy of this gene cause citrullinemia.
Two transcript variants encoding the same protein have been found for this gene.
A 105-kDa serum glycoprotein with significant homology to the other late complement components, C7-C9.
It is a polypeptide chain cross-linked by 32 disulfide bonds.
C6 is the next complement component to bind to the membrane-bound COMPLEMENT C5B in the assembly of MEMBRANE ATTACK COMPLEX.
It is encoded by gene C6.
Bromperidol (Bromidol) is a drug which is a butyrophenone derivative.
It is a potent and long-acting neuroleptic, used as an antipsychotic in the treatment of schizophrenia
Aromatic (hydrocarbon) solvents comprised wholly or primarily of aromatic hydrocarbon compounds.
They are used commercially in numerous applications, including industrial solvents and chemical intermediates.
Aromatic solvents can also be found in glues, paints, and paint thinners.
Testing is performed to monitor occupational exposure to these solvents, including benzene, ethylbenzene, pentane, styrene, toluene, and xylenes.
Toxicity from aromatic solvents causes CNS depressant effects (eg, irritation, nausea, dizziness, unconsciousness, etc).
Severity depends on the intensity and duration of the exposure.
In addition, benzene is listed as a potential carcinogen.
Originally, agents that caused somnolence or induced sleep; now, any derivative, natural or synthetic, of opium or morphine or any substance that has their effects.
Narcotics have potent analgesic effects associated with significant changes in mood and behavior, and with the potential for dependence and tolerance following repeated administration.
Common name for two families of FLATFISHES belonging to the order Pleuronectiformes: left-eye flounders (Bothidae) and right-eye flounders (Pleuronectidae).
The latter is more commonly used in research.
The NOTCH3 gene (notch 3) is located on chromosome 19p13.2-p13.1.
This gene encodes the third discovered human homologue of the Drosophilia melanogaster type I membrane protein notch.
In Drosophilia, notch interaction with its cell-bound ligands (delta, serrate) establishes an intercellular signalling pathway that plays a key role in neural development.
Homologues of the notch-ligands have also been identified in human, but precise interactions between these ligands and the human notch homologues remains to be determined.
Mutations in NOTCH3 have been identified as the underlying cause of cerebral autosomal dominant arteriopathy with subcortical infarcts and leukoencephalopathy (CADASIL).
The Gly380Arg mutation in the FGFR3 (fibroblast growth factor receptor 3) gene causes achondroplasia, the most common short-limbed skeletal dysplasia inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern.
More than 90% of patients with achondroplasia have this mutation.
Most cases (>80%) occur sporadically.
In the other cases, patients inherited one or two copies from an affected parent.
Individuals who inherit two copies of the mutation typically have a severe form of achondroplasia and usually are stillborn or die shortly after birth from respiratory failure.
The date that a patient withdraws consent from participating in a clinical trial.
Naltrexone and acamprosate use different pharmacologic pathways and especially given together, have demonstrated effectiveness in preventing the relapse of alcoholism.
Mucor is a genus of about 3000 species of moulds commonly found in soil, digestive systems, plant surfaces, and rotten vegetable matter.
Naphthol may refer to: 1-Naphthol or 2-Naphthol
Ethisterone is a progestogen hormone.
The first orally active progestin, ethisterone (pregneninolone, 17α-ethynyltestosterone), the 17α-ethynyl analog of testosterone, was synthesized in 1938 by Hans Herloff Inhoffen, Willy Logemann, Walter Hohlweg, and Arthur Serini at Schering AG in Berlin and marketed in Germany in 1939 as Proluton C and by Schering in the U.S. in 1945 as Pranone.
Telithromycin is the first ketolide antibiotic to enter clinical use.
It is used to treat mild to moderate respiratory infections.
Telithromycin is sold under the brand name of Ketek.
Telithromycin is a semi-synthetic erythromycin derivative.
It is created by substituting the cladinose sugar with a ketogroup and adding a carbamate ring in the lactone ring.
An alkyl-aryl moiety is attached to this carbamate ring.
Furthermore, the carbon at position 6 has been methylated, as is the case in clarithromycin, to achieve better acid-stability.
Vascular cell adhesion molecule 1 (VCAM-1) is a protein that in humans is encoded by the VCAM1 gene.
The VCAM-1 protein mediates the adhesion of lymphocytes, monocytes, eosinophils, and basophils to vascular endothelium.
It also functions in leukocyte-endothelial cell signal transduction, and it may play a role in the development of atherosclerosis and rheumatoid arthritis.
Paracoccidioides brasiliensis is a dimorphic species of fungus responsible for paracoccidioidomycosis.
While the route of infection is assumed to be via inhalation, the environmental habit of P. brasiliensis is unknown.
Notably, the organism produces multiple blastoconidia from a single cell.
Paracoccidioides brasiliensis causes mucus ulceration of mouth and nose with lymph spread.
The volume of gas exhaled from the lungs in one minute.
Centromere protein A (CENP-A) is an essential centromere protein encoded by the CENPA gene.
Overexpression of CENP-A causes chromosomal aberrations, and depletion of CENP-A promotes apoptosis and induces cell cycle arrest.
Overexpression of CENP-A has been associated with high grade cancers and is a prognostic factor for patients with estrogen receptor (ER)-positive breast cancer.
Antibodies to CENP-A are associated with scleroderma, systemic sclerosis, CREST syndrome, and other rheumatologic diseases.
Citalopram (brand name Celexa) is used to treat depression and in a class of antidepressants called selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs).
It is thought to work by increasing the amount of serotonin, a natural substance in the brain that helps maintain mental balance.
Escitalopram (brand name Lexapro) is the (S)-stereoisomer (enantiomer) of citalopram, and contains the same active medication as citalopram.
These two drugs act in the body in a very similar way.
Escitalopram is used to treat depression and generalized anxiety disorder.
It is also an SSRI.
Children, teenagers, and young adults who take antidepressants to treat depression or other mental illnesses may be more likely to become suicidal those who do not.
Salvinorin A is the main active psychotropic molecule in Salvia divinorum, a Mexican plant which has a long history of use as an entheogen by indigenous Mazatec shamans.
Salvinorin A is a hallucinogenic compound with psychedelic/dissociative effects.
Psyllium is a plant of the genus Plantago.
The psyllium husk or seed (plantago seed) of various species of Plantago is used as a bulk-forming laxative.
Dihydropyrimidine dehydrogenase (DPD, encoded by the DPYD gene;) is the rate-limiting enzyme for fluoropyrimidine metabolism and is therefore responsible for the detoxification of these types of drugs.
Patients who are homozygous for variants in DPYD that lead to a non-functional protein have a high risk of severe or fatal drug toxicities and may benefit from receiving an alternative chemotherapeutic drug.
Patients heterozygous for these variants also have an increased risk for drug toxicities, and reduced dosing is recommended for these individuals.
The NPC1 gene (Niemann-Pick disease, type C1) is located on chromosome 18q11.2.
This gene encodes a large protein that resides in the limiting membrane of endosomes and lysosomes and mediates intracellular cholesterol trafficking via binding of cholesterol to its N-terminal domain.
It is predicted to have a cytoplasmic C-terminus, 13 transmembrane domains, and 3 large loops in the lumen of the endosome - the last loop being at the N-terminus.
This protein transports low-density lipoproteins to late endosomal/lysosomal compartments where they are hydrolized and released as free cholesterol.
Defects in this gene cause Niemann-Pick type C disease, a rare autosomal recessive neurodegenerative disorder characterized by over accumulation of cholesterol and glycosphingolipids in late endosomal/lysosomal compartments.
1,1,2-Trichloroethane, or 1,1,2-TCA, is an organochloride solvent with the molecular formula C2H3Cl3.
It is a colorless, sweet-smelling liquid that does not dissolve in water, but is soluble in most organic solvents.
It is an isomer of 1,1,1-trichloroethane.
It is used as a solvent and as an intermediate in the synthesis of 1,1-dichloroethane.
1,1,2-TCA is a central nervous system depressant and inhalation of vapors may cause dizziness, drowsiness, headache, nausea, shortness of breath, unconsciousness, or cancer.
Trichloroethane may be harmful by inhalation, ingestion and skin contact.
It is a respiratory and eye irritant.
Although no definitive studies currently exist, trichlorethane should be treated as a potential carcinogen since laboratory evidence suggests that low molecular weight chlorinated hydrocarbons may be carcinogenic
Warfarin (also known under the brand names of Coumadin®, Jantoven®, Marevan®, and Waran®) is an anticoagulant medication that is administered orally or, very rarely, by injection.
It is used for the prophylaxis of thrombosis and embolism in many disorders.
Its activity has to be monitored by frequent blood testing for the international normalized ratio (INR).
It is named for the Wisconsin Alumni Research Foundation.
Warfarin is a synthetic derivative of coumarin, a chemical found naturally in many plants, notably woodruff (Galium odoratum, Rubiaceae), and at lower levels in licorice, lavender and various other species.
The use of warfarin itself as a rat poison is now declining, because many rat populations have developed resistance to it, and poisons of considerably greater potency are now available (e.g. brodifacoum).
Kochia is native to southern and eastern Russia, Europe and Asia.
It is now naturalised across the northern half of the United States and spreading south-westwards.
It is found in many other areas of the world.
Kochia is a major source of pollen.
Anecdotal evidence suggests that asthma, allergic rhinitis and allergic conjunctivitis are common following exposure to pollen from Kochia; however, few specific studies have been reported to date.
Abiraterone, or abiraterone acetate, is an androstene derivative that inhibits STEROID 17-ALPHA-HYDROXYLASE and is used as an ANTINEOPLASTIC AGENT in the treatment of metastatic castration-resistant PROSTATE CANCER.
Immunoglobulin A (IgA) is a glycoprotein that plays a critical role in mucosal immunity.
More IgA is produced in mucosal linings than all other immunoglobulins (IgG,IgM,IgE), combined; between 3 and 5g are secreted into the intestinal lumen each day.
IgA, in its secretory form, is the main immunoglobulin found in mucous secretions, including tears, saliva, colostrum, intestinal juice, vaginal fluid and secretions from the prostate and respiratory epithelium.
It is also found in small amounts in blood.
Because it is resistant to degradation by enzymes, secretory IgA can survive in harsh environments such as the digestive and respiratory tracts, thus providing a first line of defense against pathogens that multiply in body secretions.
Human parainfluenza viruses (HPIVs) are common causes of respiratory tract disease in infants and young children.
Each of the four HPIVs has different clinical and epidemiologic features.
HPIV-4 is detected infrequently, and is less likely to cause severe disease; but it may be more common than once thought.
Heparin neutralization refers to specimens treated with heparinase to inactivate heparin that may interfere with a coagulation assay.
sec-Butyl acetate, or s-butyl acetate, is a solvent commonly used as a solvent in lacquers and enamels, where it is used in the production of acyclic polymers, vinyl resins, and nitrocellulose.
It is a clear flammable liquid with a sweet smell.
Sec-Butyl acetate has three isomers: n-butyl acetate, isobutyl acetate, and tert-butyl acetate.
The MAPT gene (microtubule-associated protein tau) is located on chromosome 17q21.1.
This gene encodes the microtubule-associated protein tau (MAPT) whose transcript undergoes complex, regulated alternative splicing, giving rise to several mRNA species.
MAPT transcripts are differentially expressed in the nervous system, depending on stage of neuronal maturation and neuron type.
MAPT gene mutations have been associated with several neurodegenerative disorders such as Alzheimer's disease, Pick's disease, frontotemporal dementia, cortico-basal degeneration and progressive supranuclear palsy.
Not to be confused with other trees of the Cupressaceae family: Juniper, Mountain cedar/Mountain juniper, Japanese cypress/False cypress, Western red cedar, Eastern red cedar, Eastern white cedar.
Italian funeral cypress grows wild in the Mediterranean area and is distributed eastward to Iran, Greece and Israel.
It is planted as an ornamental in Australia, New Zealand, Chile, and India, along the Rhone valley in France, and in Britain.
Cupressaceae is the most widely distributed of all gymnosperm families, occurring in diverse habitats on all continents except Antarctica.
Pollen from Italian funeral cypress can cause asthma, hayfever and conjunctivitis.
The classes of BONE MARROW-derived blood cells in the monocytic series (MONOCYTES and their precursors) and granulocytic series (GRANULOCYTES and their precursors).
Bordetella parapertussis is a species of Bordetella and is increasingly being identified as the cause of pertussis-like symptoms, including coughing paroxysms, whooping, and post-tussive emesis.
Originally thought to cause milder illness than B. pertussis, more recent studies have shown that the two species have similar severity.
B. pertussis vaccination does not protect again B. parapertussis infection and in fact, may actually increase susceptibility to parapertussis.
B. parapertussis is a strictly aerobic, non-motile, gram-negative coccobacillus and that is difficult to isolate using traditional culture techniques.
Diagnostic techniques include culture, molecular assays, and serology.
Coxiella refers to a genus of Gram-negative bacteria in the family Coxiellaceae.
Coxiella burnetii is the only member of this genus.
It is an intracellular bacterium and it survives within the phagolysosomes of its host.
It causes Q fever.
Coronaviruses, named for the crown-like spikes on their surface, are common viruses that cause mild to moderate upper-respiratory tract illnesses of a short duration.
There are four main sub-groupings of coronaviruses, known as alpha, beta, gamma, and delta.
The six coronaviruses that can infect humans are: alpha coronaviruses 229E and NL63, and beta coronaviruses OC43, HKU1, SARS-CoV (the coronavirus that causes severe acute respiratory syndrome, or SARS), and MERS-CoV (Middle East Respiratory Syndrome, or MERS).
Infections are common with human coronaviruses 229E, NL63, OC43, and HKU1.
The exceptions are SARS-CoV and MERS-CoV. SARS-CoV (severe acute respiratory syndrome) was first recognized in China in November 2002 causing a worldwide outbreak from 2002 to 2003.
Since 2004, there have no reported cases of SARS-CoV infection.
MERS-CoV, first reported in Saudi Arabia in 2012, has caused illness in hundreds of people from several countries.
All cases to date have been linked to countries in and near the Arabian Peninsula.
A non-essential amino acid that is involved in the metabolic control of cell functions in nerve and brain tissue.
It is synthesized from aspartic acid and ammonia by asparagine synthetase.
(From Concise Encyclopedia Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, 3rd ed)
Small, abnormal spherical red blood cells with more than the normal amount of hemoglobin.
alpha-Mannosidase is an enzyme involved in the cleavage of the alpha form of mannose.
It can be utilized in experiments that determine the effects of the presence or absence of mannose on specific molecules, such as recombinant proteins that are used in vaccine development.
A deficiency can lead to alpha-mannosidosis.
The ANA intercellular bridge pattern, previously called stem body or midbody, shows staining of the bridge that connects two daughter cells before they separate at the end of cell division.
It has low predictive value for any specific disorder.
CYP2B6 gene encodes a member of the cytochrome P450 enzymes, which catalyze many reactions involved in drug metabolism and synthesis of cholesterol, steroids and other lipids.
CYP2B6, along with CYP2A6, is involved with metabolizing nicotine as well as many other substances.
Transcript variants for the CYP2B6 gene have been described, including 415A>G (*8), 516G>T (*9), 983T>C (*16), and 1459C>T(*5), and are associated with altered drug metabolism.
CYP2B6 gene is found in a large cluster of cytochrome P450 genes from the CYP2A, CYP2B and CYP2F subfamilies on chromosome 19q.
Cytochrome P450-2C9 (CYP2C9; ), a member of the cytochrome P450 mixed-function oxidase system, is involved in the metabolism 10-15% of drugs in current clinical use.
Genetic variations in CYP2C9 can affect the response (i.e., efficacy or toxicity) to drugs metabolized by CYP2C9 and selection of alternative dosing or agents may be necessary in individuals with specific CYP2C9 genetic variations.
Salicornia is a genus of succulent, halophyte (salt tolerant) plants that grow in salt marshes, on beaches, and among mangroves.
Salicornia species are native to North America, Europe, South Africa and South Asia.
Common names for the genus include glasswort, pickleweed, and marsh samphire; these common names are also used for some species not in Salicornia.
Mannose-6-phosphate isomerase, also known as phosphomannose isomerase, catalyzes the interconversion of fructose-6-phosphate and mannose-6-phosphate.
It is encoded by the MPI gene, which is located on chromosome 15q24.1.
Mannose-6-phosphate isomerase deficiency is the cause of congenital disorder of glycosylation type Ib (CDG Ib), an autosomal recessive disorder characterized by chronic diarrhea with failure to thrive, protein-losing enteropathy, and coagulopathy.
CDG Ib is different from the other CDGs in that it does not have significant central nervous system involvement.
Glycine, a hydrophillic amino acid with uncharged polar groups, is a primary marker for nonketotic hyperglycinemia (glycine encephalopathy).
Neomycin is an aminoglycoside antibiotic that is found in many topical medications such as creams, ointments and eyedrops.
A non-essential amino acid synthesized from glutamic acid, proline is a key component of collagen and plays an important role in the function of joints and tendons.
Uroporphyrin is the porphyrin produced by oxidation of the methylene bridges in uroporphyrinogen.
They have four acetic acid and four propionic acid side chains attached to the pyrrole rings.
Uroporphyrinogen I and III is formed from polypyrryl methane in the presence of uroporphyrinogen III cosynthetase and uroporphyrin I synthetase, respectively.
They can yield uroporphyrins by autooxidation or coproporphyrinogens by decarboxylation.
Excessive amounts of uroporphyrin I are excreted in congenital erythropoietic porphyria, and both types I and III are excreted in porphyria cutanea tarda.
Uroporphyrin I and III are the most common isomers.
A serovar of the bacterial species LEPTOSPIRA INTERROGANS, characteristically associated with a severe zoonotic disease in humans.
Is an oral broad spectrum antibiotic effective against tuberculosis, it inhibits cell wall synthesis of TB bacilli at early stage of peptidoglycan synthesis.
Being trialed for treatment of phobias as well as an adjuvant to conventional treatments for depression and schizophrenia.
Side effects mainly CNS manifestations i.e. headache, irritability, depression, convulsions.
Co-administration of pyridoxine can reduce the incidence of some of the CNS side effects(e.g.
These psychotropic responses are related to D-cycloserine's action as a partial agonist of the neuronal NMDA receptor for glutamate and have been examined in implications with sensory-related fear extinction in the amygdala.
See Michael Davis, Barbara Rothbaum, Kerry Ressler et al. and their work with PTSD at Emory University 's School of Medicine.
An element of the rare earth family of metals.
It has the atomic symbol Gd, atomic number 64, and atomic weight 157.25.
Its oxide is used in the control rods of some nuclear reactors.
The GDAP1 gene (ganglioside induced differentiation associated protein 1) is located on chromosome 8q21.11.
This gene encodes a member of the ganglioside-induced differentiation-associated protein family, which may play a role in a signal transduction pathway during neuronal development.
Mutations in this gene have been associated with various forms of Charcot-Marie-Tooth Disease and neuropathy.
Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms and a noncoding variant have been identified for this gene.
Maximum inspiratory gas flow is the peak flow rate during the inspiratory cycle.
Maximum flow rates may be diminished with obstruction at various points of the upper airway.
The profile of various pterins in serum, urine, and cerebrospinal fluid is used to diagnose pediatric neurotransmitter diseases caused by defects in the pterin biosynthetic pathway.
The results in urine may also be used to differentiate atypical phenylketonuria (PKU) from the classical PKU disease.
Very high amounts can be fed to animals with no ill effects if the kidneys are functioning.
Inappetance is the major practical problem encountered from excessive dietary magnesium.
Because only a fraction of dietary magnesium is generally absorbed, high amounts of magnesium in the diet can cause an osmotic diarrhea in the animal.
This is usually of greater concern in poultry houses where the water content of manure can be a major concern to producers but does not necessarily impact the health of the birds.
The hemodialysis fluid removed is the net fluid removed during hemodialysis.
It is calculated as total fluid out - total fluid in and may be recorded per session or for each hour during the hemodialysis session.
For example, if the patient had a total output of 3L and total input of 2L during a session of hemodialysis, the net fluid removed is 1L.
Hexachlorocyclopentadiene is an organochlorine compound that is a precursor to several pesticides.
This colorless liquid is an inexpensive reactive diene.
Many of its derivatives proved to be highly controversial, as studies showed them to be persistent organic pollutants.
Collectively, the pesticides derived from hexachlorocyclopentadiene are called the cyclodienes
Urobilinogen is a colorless tetrapyrrol that is formed from the reduction of bilirubin by intestinal bacteria.
Roughly 20% of the urobilinogen is reabsorbed, returns to the liver via the portal vein, and is excreted by the kidneys in the form of urobilin.
The remainder is excreted in the stool.
The three mechanisms that alter bilirubin metabolism and can increase or decrease urobilinogen concentration are the following: 1) pre-hepatic overproduction of heme due to diseases such as sickle cell anemia, hemolytic anemia, transfusion reactions, thalassemia, and pernicious anemia, which leads to an increased production of bilirubin and later, urobilinogen; 2) hepatocellular disorders in which the hepatocytes' ability to take up bilirubin, conjugated to glucuronic acid and excreted into the bile duct is impaired which causes a decreased urobilinogen concentration; and 3) post-hepatic obstruction of the bile duct and the biliary system so that conjugated bilirubin is unable to enter the intestines and no urobilinogen is produced.(Fundamental of Urine & Body Fluid Analysis, Third,Nancy A. Brunzel, MS, MLS(ASCP)CM,Elsevier, St Louis, MO ©2013)
The third DNA index peak
The KCNH2 gene (potassium voltage-gated channel subfamily H member 2) is located on chromosome 7q36.1.
This gene encodes a voltage-activated potassium channel belonging to the eag family.
It shares sequence similarity with the Drosophila ether-a-go-go (eag) gene.
Mutations in this gene can cause long QT syndrome type 2 (LQT2).
Transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms have been identified.
Beta defensins are a family of mammalian defensins.
The beta defensins are antimicrobial peptides implicated in the resistance of epithelial surfaces to microbial colonization.
Defensins are 2-6 kDa, cationic, microbicidal peptides active against many Gram-negative and Gram-positive bacteria, fungi, and enveloped viruses, containing three pairs of intramolecular disulfide bonds.
On the basis of their size and pattern of disulfide bonding, mammalian defensins are classified into alpha, beta and theta categories.
Every mammalian species explored thus far has beta-defensins.
In cows, as many as 13 beta-defensins exist in neutrophils.
However, in other species, beta-defensins are more often produced by epithelial cells lining various organs (e.g. the epidermis, bronchial tree and genitourinary tract).
The HEXB gene (hexosaminidase B (beta polypeptide)) is located on chromosome 5q13.
Hexosaminidase B is the beta subunit of the lysosomal enzyme beta-hexosaminidase that, together with the cofactor GM2 activator protein, catalyzes the degradation of the ganglioside GM2, and other molecules containing terminal N-acetyl hexosamines.
Beta-hexosaminidase is composed of two subunits, alpha and beta, which are encoded by separate genes.
Both beta-hexosaminidase alpha and beta subunits are members of family 20 of glycosyl hydrolases.
Mutations in the alpha or beta subunit genes lead to an accumulation of GM2 ganglioside in neurons and neurodegenerative disorders termed the GM2 gangliosidoses.
Beta subunit gene mutations lead to Sandhoff disease (GM2-gangliosidosis type II).
Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
Sheikh JI, Yesavage JA: Geriatric Depression Scale (GDS): Recent evidence and development of a shorter version.
Clinical Gerontology : A Guide to Assessment and Intervention 165-173, NY: The Haworth Press, 1986.
The number of cycles that have been preset or scheduled, for example, on a nebulizer machine.
One of the SELECTIVE ESTROGEN RECEPTOR MODULATORS, it is agonist for bone tissue and cholesterol metabolism but antagonist in mammary and uterine tissues.
Concern has been raised about increased cancer risk.
The WS2A (microphthalmia-associated transcription factor) gene is located on chromosome 3p14.2-p14.1.
This gene encodes a transcription factor that contains both basic helix-loop-helix and leucine zipper structural features.
It regulates the differentiation and development of melanocytes retinal pigment epithelium and is also responsible for pigment cell-specific transcription of the melanogenesis enzyme genes.
Heterozygous mutations in the this gene cause auditory-pigmentary syndromes, such as Waardenburg syndrome type 2 and Tietz syndrome.
Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been identified.
Free T3 (free triiodothyronine) is a measure of free circulating T3, excluding that which is bound to carrier proteins.
This provides a more accurate measure of T3 levels because the carrier proteins can increase or decrease in various conditions artificially inflating or shrinking the total T3.
T3 is discriminating for diagnosing and/or following the treatment of hyperthyroidism.
It is not very useful at the low range of concentrations, so is not very helpful in diagnosing hypothyroidism.
The thyroid delivers 20 times more T4 than T3, so T4 is the more relevant analyte except in special cases.
Fungi are eukaryotic microorganisms which manifest as yeasts, molds or a combination.
Yeasts start as individual cells that reproduce by budding.
Molds, which are long filaments or hyphae, grow by apical extension.
Both yeasts and molds are heterotrophic and digest their food externally by absorptive nutrition.
Taxonomically, yeast are characterized by their size and shape, the presence or absence of capsules, conidiogenesis (the process of daughter cell formation), presence of sexual spores, the formation of pseudo-and true hyphae and physiologic data.
Species are differentiated based on the ability to assimilate and ferment carbon sources, and to utilize nitrate as nitrogen.
Some opportunistic fungal pathogens found in humans are dimorphic.
They grow as mycelium in nature and reproduce as yeast in the body.
One example is Candida which can quickly transform from yeast to the hyphal phase in humans; this process helps it invade host tissue.
Lenscale is native to the temperate and tropical regions of North America, but a few species are grown as ornamentals throughout the world because of their attractive greyish foliage.
The different Atriplex species are closely related to each other, and consist of annual and perennial weeds and shrubs.
An adult hemoglobin component normally present in hemolysates from human erythrocytes in concentrations of about 3%.
The hemoglobin is composed of two alpha chains and two delta chains.
The percentage of HbA2 varies in some hematologic disorders, but is about double in beta-thalassemia.
The F10 gene encodes for factor X, a vitamin K-dependent protein of the blood coagulation cascade synthesized in the liver.
Factor X is the first component of the final common coagulation pathway and is activated to Xa by factor IXa (intrinsic pathway) or factor VIIa (extrinsic pathway).
The activated factor Xa is then involved in cleaving prothrombin into active thrombin.
Mutations in the F10 gene cause a rare bleeding disorder of variable severity known as factor X deficiency, with severe cases resulting from homozygous or compound heterozygous mutations, and mild /moderate cases are more commonly heterozygous.
Clinical presentations range from nose bleeds, menorrhagia or post-surgical bleeding in the mild cases to hematuria, hematomas, Gi bleeding, bleeding into joints or tissues in more severe cases.
Unlike the X-linked hemophilias, F10 is located on chromosome 13 so occurs equally in both sexes.
Treament involves factor replacement.
Tianeptine is a selective serotonin reuptake enhancer (SSRE) that is used to treat major depression.
Its mechanism of action is the opposite of selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs).
Tianeptine modulates the dopamine D2 and D3 receptors and increases the extracellular concentration of dopamine in the nucleus accumbens.
It also acts on NMDA and AMPA receptors.
Ketobemidone (Cliradon, Ketogan, Ketodur, Cymidon, Ketorax, &c.) is a powerful opioid analgesic.
Its effectiveness against pain is in the same range as morphine, and it also has some NMDA-antagonist properties.
This makes it useful for some types of pain that don't respond well to other opioids.
The most commonly cited equalisation ratio for analgesic doses is 25 mg of ketobemidone hydrobromide to 60 mg of morphine hydrochloride or sulfate and circa 8 mg of ketobemidone by injection.
It is used for all types of severe pain, such as postoperative, cancer, kidney stones and fractures.
Adefovir dipivoxil, previously called bis-POM PMEA, works by blocking reverse transcriptase, an enzyme that is crucial for the hepatitis B virus (HBV) to reproduce in the body.
Adefovir was initially developed for treatment of HIV, sold under the brand name Preveon.
It was discontinued in 1999 for HIV but later approved in 2002 by the FDA for treatment of hepatitis B (HBV) and sold under the brand name Hepsera..
Adefovir is associated with renal toxicity.
MDM2 gene amplification studies evaluate the number of copies of the MDM2 gene present in a single cell to aid in the differential diagnosis between well-differentiated liposarcoma and benign lipoma.
Amplification is determined based on the MDM2 gene copy number and MDM2 to centromere ratio (CEP12).
An MDM2/CEP12 ratio of >= 2 strongly supports a diagnosis of well-differentiated liposarcoma.
Eszopiclone is a cyclopyrrolones and a benzodiazepine receptor agonist derived from pyridine, pyrazine and piperazine and used to treat insomnia.
Its mechanism of action is to bind to the omega-1 subtype of the alpha subunit of gamma-aminobutyrate-benzodiazepine GABA receptor complex (GABA-A).
GABA-A is a chloride ionophore in the central nervous system, that when bound causes the chloride channels to open, leading to hyperpolarization, inhibition of neuronal firing, and an increase in the inhibition of GABA.
This sequence of events causes an hypnotic response in the patient and induces sleep.
Eszopiclone has insignificant anxiolytic activity and shows no evidence of causing increased liver enzymes in the blood.
The chromosome 11p15 region contains a large cluster of imprinted genes, including H19 (maternally expressed), KCNQ1OT1 (paternally expressed), IGF2 (paternally expressed), and CDKN1C (maternally expressed).
Expression of these genes is controlled by 2 imprinting centers (IC), IC1 and IC2.
Genetic or epigenetic alterations within the genes or the imprinting centers of the 11p15 region cause Beckwith-Wiedemann syndrome (BWS), a clinically heterogeneous overgrowth syndrome associated with neonatal hypoglycemia, congenital malformations, and an increased risk for embryonal tumor development.
The clinical presentation of BWS is dependent on which genes are involved.
Alterations in the 11p15 chromosome region also cause Russell-Silver syndrome (RSS), a genetically heterogeneous disorder characterized by intrauterine and postnatal growth retardation, characteristic facies, and asymmetry of the face, body, and/or extremities.
Hypomethylation of the paternal IC1 is identified in 35%-50% of individuals with RSS.
Sulforidazine (Imagotan, Psychoson, Inofal) a typical antipsychotic and a metabolite of thioridazine; it and mesoridazine are more potent than the parent compound, whose pharmacological effects are believed by some to be largely due to its metabolism into sulforidazine and mesoridazine.
A muscarinic antagonist used to treat drug-induced parkinsonism and to relieve pain from muscle spasm.
CD7 (Cluster of Differentiation 7) is a human protein encoded by the CD7 gene.
This gene encodes a transmembrane protein which is a member of the immunoglobulin superfamily.
This protein is found on thymocytes and mature T cells.
It plays an essential role in T-cell interactions and also in T-cell/B-cell interaction during early lymphoid development.
The straight line distance between Condylion and Gnathion
The DCX gene (doublecortin) is located on chromosome Xq22.3-q23.
This gene encodes a member of the doublecortin family.
The protein encoded by this gene is a cytoplasmic protein and contains two doublecortin domains, which bind microtubules.
In the developing cortex, cortical neurons must migrate over long distances to reach the site of their final differentiation.
The encoded protein appears to direct neuronal migration by regulating the organization and stability of microtubules.
In addition, the encoded protein interacts with LIS1, the regulatory gamma subunit of platelet activating factor acetylhydrolase, and this interaction is important to proper microtubule function in the developing cortex.
Mutations in this gene cause abnormal migration of neurons during development and disrupt the layering of the cortex, leading to epilepsy, mental retardation, subcortical band heterotopia ("double cortex" syndrome) in females and lissencephaly ("smooth brain" syndrome) in males.
Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
A centrally active drug that apparently both blocks serotonin uptake and provokes transport-mediated serotonin release.
The 5' UTR (untranslated region) of the human rhinovirus (HRV) genome is highly conserved with gene sequences similar to other enterovirus species.
PCR-based assays targeting the 5' UTR provide high sensitivity for detecting rhinoviruses but may require an additional step, such as hybridization with specific probes, to distinguish between enterovirus- and rhinovirus-positive samples.
Feline leukemia virus (FeLV) is a retrovirus that infects cats.
As a retrovirus, FeLV is transmitted as an RNA virus but the RNA is reverse transcribed into DNA.
Retroviruses contradict the Central dogma of molecular biology.
FeLV is usually transmitted between infected cats when the transfer of saliva or nasal secretions is involved.
If not defeated by the animal's immune system, the virus can be lethal.
The disease caused by this virus is a form of cancer of blood cells called lymphocytes (a leukemia).
The bispectral index (BIS) is a quantitative measure of depth of anesthesia, specifically the level of consciousness.
The BIS at any point in time is based on the prior 15 to 30 seconds of EEG data, and index values range from 0 to 100.
No measurable cortical activity would result in a BIS of 0, and a typical awake state is usually associated with an index of 90-100.
Typical values for a patient undergoing general anesthesia are 40-60.
The stimulation setting is the setting for the amount of energy the pacemaker delivers in order to trigger depolarization.
It is usually set at a higher value than the stimulation threshold.
Stimulation setting is typically expressed in mA for temporary pacemakers and mV for permanent pacemakers.
The Brazil nut is actually the seed of a giant tree that grows wild in South America's Amazon jungle.
A number of allergenic proteins have been isolated from Brazil nut.
Pentastarch is a subgroup of hydroxyethyl starch, whith five hydroxyethyl groups.
It is sold under the name Pentaspan and used for fluid resuscitation.
It is considered a plasma expander because it remains primarily intravascular after infusion.
Phospholipids are a class of lipids formed from four components: fatty acids, a negatively-charged phosphate group, nitrogen containing alcohol and a backbone.
Phospholipids with a glycerol backbone are known as glycerophospholipids or phosphoglycerides.
There is only one type of phospholipid with a sphingosine backbone; sphingomyelin.
Phospholipids are a major component of all biological membranes, along with glycolipids and cholesterol.
Lysozyme is an enzyme, commonly referred to as the body's own antibiotic since it kills bacteria.
It is abundantly present in a number of secretions, such as tears.
This protein is present in cytoplasmic granules of the polymorphonuclear neutrophils (PMN) and released through the mucosal secretions (such as tears and saliva).
They can also be found in high concentration in egg white.
Ethylmethcathinone (4-EMC) is a synthetic entactogen (a type of synthetic cathinone or bath salt) and categorized as a designer drug or substance of abuse.
Synthetic cathinones cause amphetamine-like effects.
They are mainly used for social purposes but are also used for their stimulant properties.
Effects of synthetic cathinones depend on the individual, the dosage of drug administered and the route of administration but the primary effects which make them attractive are increased alertness, sociability, effectiveness in work, euphoria, intense physical and sensory pleasure and a decreased appetite.
The most common adverse effects are cardiac and neurologic.
3-hydroxybutyric acid as well as saturated and unsaturated 3-hydroxydicarboxylic acids with carbon chains containing 6 to 14 carbons, including 3-hydroxysebacate and 3-hydroxysuberate, are found by organic acid analysis of patients with SCHAD deficiency during periods of metabolic decompensation.
Such a pattern is not seen in other ketotic conditions, such as diabetic ketoacidosis or starvation-induced ketosis.
Norcotinine is a metabolite of nicotine.
It has been detected in smokers urine (about 1% of total nicotine and metabolites).
Two pathways for its formation are possible, demethylation of cotinine or oxidative metabolism of nornicotine.
The VAPB gene (VAMP (vesicle-associated membrane protein)-associated protein B and C) is located on chromosome 20q13.33.
The protein encoded by this gene is a type IV membrane protein found in plasma and intracellular vesicle membranes.
The encoded protein is found as a homodimer and as a heterodimer with VAPA.
This protein also can interact with VAMP1 and VAMP2 and may be involved in vesicle trafficking.
Defects in this gene are the cause of Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis 8 phenotype.
The Bamboo is cultivated in China and Japan for its edible young shoots and for other uses.
There are 91 genera and about 1,000 species, but only a small number of species produce ingredients common in Asian cookery.
Anecdotal evidence suggests that Bamboo can occasionally induce symptoms of food allergy in sensitised individuals; however, few studies have been reported to date.
IgE antibodies to Bamboo have been reported in patients with atopic dermatitis, rhinitis and asthma.
Dibenzepin (Noveril, Anslopax, Deprex, Ecatril, Neodit, Victoril) is a tricyclic antidepressant (TCA) used widely throughout Europe for the treatment of depression.
It has similar efficacy and effects relative to other TCAs like imipramine but with fewer side effects.
Dibenzepin acts as a norepinephrine reuptake inhibitor, potent antihistamine, and weak anticholinergic.
It lacks any 5-HT2 antagonistic properties
An antiviral agent used in the treatment of cytomegalovirus retinitis.
Foscarnet also shows activity against human herpesviruses and HIV.
C18 steroid with androgenic and anabolic properties.
It is generally prepared from alkyl ethers of ESTRADIOL to resemble TESTOSTERONE but less one carbon at the 19 position.
Borrelia miyamotoi is a spirochetal bacterium that is closely related to the Borrelia species that causes tick-borne relapsing fever (TBRF), and it is more distantly related to the Borrelia species that cause Lyme disease.
First identified in 1995 in ticks from Japan, B. miyamotoi has since been detected in two species of North American ticks, the black-legged or "deer" tick (Ixodes scapularis) and the western black-legged tick (Ixodes pacificus).
These ticks are already known to transmit several diseases, including Lyme disease, anaplasmosis, and babesiosis.
Patients with B. miyamotoi infection are most likely to have fever, chills, and headache.
Other common symptoms included body and joint pain and fatigue.
Unlike Lyme disease, rash is uncommon, presenting in only 4 out of 51 patients.
Patients infected with B. miyamotoi have been treated with a 2-4 week course of doxycycline, amoxicillin, or ceftriaxone.
Fewer than 60 well-documented cases of human infection have been reported in the United States as of July 2015.
The route of transmission of B. miyamotoi to humans has not been firmly established, but likely involves the bite of infected black-legged ticks.
The flaB gene is one of the genes that encode the core proteins for flagellin, a globular protein that forms the filament in a bacterial flagellum.
The nicotine metabolite, cotinine, is a sensitive and specific biochemical marker of exposure (direct and passive) to cigarette smoke.
Chromosomal translocation t(6;9)(p22;q34) DEK-NUP214 is found in acute myeloid leukemias (AML) and myelodysplastic syndromes (MDS).
A large study found the 5 year overall survival for patient's with this translocation was 28% in children and 9% in adults.
Patients who achieved extensive molecular remission had a better outcome than patients with persistent presence of DEK/NUP214.
Allium ampeloprasum is a member of the onion genus Allium, in the family Alliaceae.
The wild plant is commonly known as (Broadleaf) Wild Leek - not to be confused with the N. American Allium tricoccum of the same name.
Its native range is S. Europe to W. Asia, and seems to have been introduced to Britain by prehistoric people, where its habitat consists of rocky places near the coast in south-west England and Wales.
It has been differentiated into three cultivated vegetables, namely leek, elephant garlic and kurrat.
In tidewater Virginia, the plant is commonly known as the "Yorktown Onion.
Fibroblast growth factor 23, or FGF23, is primarily produced in bone and helps regulate phosphate and vitamin D metabolism by binding to receptors on renal tubular cells.
Intact FGF23 is the bioactive form that is produced after removal of a signal peptide from the inactive FGF23 precursor, and consists of an N-terminal domain and a C-terminal domain.
Intact FGF23 is cleaved into N-terminal and C-terminal fragments, which are no longer active.
The production of FGF23 is regulated by a variety of factors, including calcium and phosphate levels, 1,25 dihydroxyvitamin D, parathyroid hormone, and iron deficiency.
Elevated FGF23 levels are associated with chronic kidney disease as well as cardiovascular disease.
Marjoram (Origanum majorana, Lamiaceae) is a somewhat cold-sensitive perennial herb or undershrub with sweet pine and citrus flavours.
A broad-spectrum antimicrobial carboxyfluoroquinoline.
Vitamin A plays a role in several important physiological processes, including vision, embryonic development, gene expression, and immune function.
The major source of dietary vitamin A is in the form of provitamin A carotenoids, which are found in vegetables, fruits and grains, and about one-third is consumed as preformed vitamin A, which is found in dairy and meat products.
Provitamin A carotenoids include beta-carotene, alpha-carotene, and beta-cryptoxanthin, and both alpha-carotene and beta-cryptoxanthin have about half the vitamin A activity of beta-carotene.
Carrots are the major contributor to both alpha- and beta-carotene, and cantaloupe, broccoli, squash, peas, and spinach also contain beta-carotene.
Fruits are the sole contributors of beta-cryptoxanthin.
DNA mismatch repair proteins Mlh1, Msh2 and Msh6, and PMS2, an endonuclease, are all part of the post-replicative DNA mismatch repair system (MMR).
Mutations in the MMR are associated with various hereditary cancer syndromes, including hereditary non-polyposis colorectal cancer (HNPCC) and mismatch repair cancer syndrome (MMRCS).
HNPCC, also known as Lynch syndrome, is an autosomal dominant disease associated with familial predisposition to early-onset colorectal cancer (CRC) as well as cancer of other parts of the gastrointestinal tract, urological, and female reproductive tract.
MMRCS is a rare autosomal recessive syndrome associated with various types of childhood cancer, including hematological malignancies, central nervous system tumors, CRC, intestinal polyps, embryonic tumors and rhabdomyosarcoma.
The pattern of immune staining for the different MMR proteins in biopsy or resection samples from colonic and other tumors associated with the above syndromes can provide information about the risk of Lynch syndrome and can help direct further genetic testing.
MAOA (monoamine oxidase A) gene is located on the X chromosome and produces the monoamine oxidase A (MAO-A), an enzyme that degrades amine neurotransmitters, such as dopamine, norepinephrine, and serotonin.
A polymorphism located upstream of the MAOA gene contains a 30 base pair variable number of tandem repeats sequence (VNTR) with 2, 3, 3.5, 4, or 5 repeated copies.
The polymorphism has been shown to affect the transcriptional activity of the MAOA gene promoter by gene fusion.
Transcription of the 2 or 3-repeat (short) alleles results in reduced MAOA activity and consequently increased levels of serotonin and other amine neurotransmitters, which is thought to increase the risk for aggression and psychiatric disorders.
Alleles consisting of 3.5 or 4 repeats have shown higher MAOA gene expression and activity than those with 3 repeats.
Disorders associated with the upstream VNTR (uVNTR) genotype and resulting MAO-A enzyme activity include Alzheimer's disease, aggression, panic disorder, bipolar affective disorder, major depressive disorder, and attention deficit hyperactivity disorder.
Cytochrome P450 1A2 (CYP1A2)-mediated drug metabolism is highly variable and often based on a patient's genotype.
Genetic testing is performed to identifying patients who are poor, intermediate, extensive, or ultrarapid metabolizers of drugs metabolized by CYP1A2.
The CYP1A2 c.2499A>T polymorphism is associated with decreased activity of the CYP1A2 enzyme.
Acacias are a characteristic feature of dry regions in India and the African savannah, where they are called umbrella trees because of their shape.
Hayfever and asthma occur through exposure to the pollen.
Rhinitis and asthma have been described in wood workers exposed to Acacia wood
Protein S deficiency is associated with recurrent venous thromboembolic disease.
Succinate dehydrogenase (SDH) is a mitochondrial enzyme complex made up of 4 subunits: subunit A (SDHA), subunit B (SDHB), subunit C (SDHC), and subunit D (SDHD).
Mutations in the SDHB, SDHC, or SDHD genes are associated with pheochromocytoma (PHEO) and paraganglioma (PGL) syndromes.
To date, mutations in SDHA have not been associated with PHEO or PGL syndromes.
Patients with a heterozygous mutation have only one functioning copy of the affected SDH subunit gene.
When the second copy is somatically lost or mutated, tumors develop in tissues.
Germline mutations in the SDHB, SDHC, and SDHD genes have been found in the majority of familial head and neck paraganglioma (HNPs) as well as in sporadic cases.
Treponema pallidum is a spirochaete bacterium.
Pathogenic treponemes are classified based upon their clinical manifestations in humans: venereal syphilis, yaws, endemic syphilis and pinta.
Nonpathogenic treponemes are often part of the normal flora of the genital tract, oral cavity or intestinal tract.
Treponemal infections exhibit diverse clinical manifestations which are characterized by distinct clinical stages.
Multiplication of the bacterium at the entry point causes the primary stage.
Dissemination of treponemes to other tissues produces the second stage.
After a latency period (up to 20 to 30 years), the tertiary stage develops.
T. palladum subsp pallidum (venereal syphilis) is the most destructive subspecies and produces lesions in many bodily tissues including the central nervous system.
Congenital syphilis may result in birth defects or fetal death.
Venereal syphilis is sexually acquired except for congenital syphilis, which is transmitted to the fetus during the later stages of pregnancy.
The other treponemes are acquired by close nonvenereal contact.
Control of both venereal and nonvenereal disease is based upon surveillance and antibiotic treatment of contacts.
The muscle tissue of the HEART.
It is composed of striated, involuntary muscle cells (MYOCYTES, CARDIAC) connected to form the contractile pump to generate blood flow.
Dedicator of cytokinesis 8 (DOCK8) protein plays a role in regulating the cellular cytoskeleton, particularly microfilaments.
DOCK8 is important in immunity by contributing to cellular migration, cytotoxicity, antibody production, and immunological memory.
Deficiency of DOCK8 causes an immunodeficiency that presents in childhood with features including recurrent sinopulmonary infections, cutaneous viral infection, Staphylococcus aureus skin infections, cancer, and atopic disease (due to hyperimmunoglobulin E).
NK cells (CD45+CD14-CD3-CD56+), T cells (CD3+CD14-CD45+), B cells (CD3-CD14-CD19+CD45+), and monocytes (CD45+CD14+) are all expected to express the DOCK8 protein.
Therefore, assessment of DOCK8 expression on immune cells facilitates the diagnosis of DOCK8 deficiency.
Toxaphene is a mixture of hundreds of different chlorinated camphenes and chlorinated terpenes that result from a reaction between chlorine gas and camphene.
Toxaphene can exist as a gas or yellow waxy solid that smells like pine.
It is a pesticide used heavily in the 1970s and 1980s in the United States to eliminate insects on cotton and other crops, on livestock, and to kill undesirable fish in lakes.
Toxaphene was banned in the United States in 1990.
Toxaphene pollutes the air when it evaporates, the soil by clinging to soil fragments, and water contaminated with it that flows into rivers, lakes and ponds.
Elevated levels of toxaphene are found in predatory fish and mammals where it collects in fatty tissue.
The Environmental Protection Agency has listed toxaphene as a probable human carcinogen.
Isoniazid (also called isonicotinyl hydrazine or isonicotinic acid hydrazide) is often abbreviated INH.
Isoniazid is a first-line antituberculous medication used in the prevention and treatment of tuberculosis.
It is available in tablet, syrup, and injectable forms (given intramuscularly or intravenously), available world-wide, inexpensive to produce and is generally well tolerated.
Test for incompatibilities between donor and recipient using donor serum and patient erythrocytes.
Zinc is an essential mineral naturally present in some foods, added to others, available as a dietary supplement, and found in many cold lozenges and cold remedies.
Zinc plays a role in immune function, protein synthesis, wound healing, DNA synthesis, and cell division.
Zinc also supports normal growth and development during pregnancy, childhood, and adolescence and is required for proper sense of taste and smell.
A daily intake of zinc is required to maintain a steady state as the body has no specialized zinc storage system.
A wide variety of foods contain zinc.
Oysters contain more zinc per serving than any other food.
Other good food sources include red meat, chicken, beans, nuts, certain types of seafood (such as crab and lobster), whole grains, fortified breakfast cereals, and dairy products.
Phytates, present in whole-grain breads, cereals, legumes, and other foods, bind zinc and inhibit its absorption.
Thus, the bioavailability of zinc from grains and plant foods is lower than that from animal foods.
Present on the surface of resting mast cells, basophils, Langerhans cells and other cell types.
The Epstein-Barr virus (EBV), also called Human herpesvirus 4 (HHV-4), is a virus of the herpes family (which includes Herpes simplex virus and Cytomegalovirus).
It is one of the most common viruses in humans.
Individuals infected with EBV are often asymptomatic but EBV commonly causes infectious mononucleosis.
It is named after Michael Epstein and Yvonne Barr, who together with Bert Achong discovered the virus in 1964.
Tetradecanoylcarnitine is a secondary marker for Very long-chain acyl-CoA dehydrogenase deficiency.
The fourth DNA index peak
Flecainide acetate is a class
Ic antiarrhythmic agent used to prevent and treat tachyarrhythmias (abnormal fast rhythms of the heart).
It is used to treat a variety of cardiac arrhythmias including paroxysmal atrial fibrillation (episodic irregular heartbeat originating in the upper chamber of the heart), paroxysmal supraventricular tachycardia (episodic rapid but regular heartbeat originating in the atrium), and ventricular tachycardia (rapid rhythms of the lower chambers of the heart).
Flecainide works by regulating the flow of sodium in the heart, thus slowing nerve impulses.
Flecainide was originally sold under the trade name Tambocor ® (manufactured by 3M pharmaceuticals).
Flecainide went off-patent on February 10th, 2004, and is now available under the trade names Almarytm ®, Apocard ®, Ecrinal ®, and Flecaine ®.
It is also available generically.
The cystic fibrosis transmembrane regulator (CFTR) mutation in exon 3 (394delTT, rs121908769) is commonly referred to as the 'Nordic CF mutation.'
It is found at high frequencies in Denmark and other countries, including Sweden, Norway, Estonia, Finland, Russia, etc., that border the Baltic Sea and associated waterways.
Comparative function describes whether the function is stable, improved, or worse compared to the previous assessment.
A colorless, toxic liquid with a strong aromatic odor.
It is used to make rubbers, polymers and copolymers, and polystyrene plastics.
A flavoprotein containing oxidoreductase that catalyzes the reduction of lipoamide by NADH to yield dihydrolipoamide and NAD+.
The enzyme is a component of several MULTIENZYME COMPLEXES.
Pentoxifylline (INN) - brand name Trental.
Its chemical name is 1-(5-oxohexyl)-3, 7-dimethylxanthine.
Pentoxifylline is a xanthine derivative.
Other brand names include Pentox, Pentoxil, and Flexital.
This drug is passed into the breast milk.
Animal studies have shown no evidence of teratogenicity at high doses.
Caldesmon is a protein that in humans is encoded by the CALD1 gene.
Caldesmon is a calmodulin binding protein.
Like calponin, caldesmon tonically inhibits the ATPase activity of myosin in smooth muscle.
The JAG1 gene (jagged 1) is located on chromosome 20p12.1-p11.23.
The jagged 1 protein encoded by JAG1 is the human homolog of the Drosophilia jagged protein.
Human jagged 1 is the ligand for the receptor notch 1, the latter a human homolog of the Drosophilia jagged receptor notch.
Mutations that alter the jagged 1 protein cause Alagille syndrome.
Jagged 1 signalling through notch 1 has also been shown to play a role in hematopoiesis.
A proerythroblast (or rubriblast, or pronormoblast) is the earliest of four stages in development of the normoblast.
In histology, it is very difficult to distinguish it from the other "-blast" cells (lymphoblast, myeloblast, monoblast, and megakaryoblast).
The cytoplasm is blue in an H&E stain, indicating that it is basophilic.
Proerythroblasts arise from the CFU-e (colony-forming unit erythroid) cells, and give rise to basophilic erythroblasts.
In the mouse, proerythroblasts are large committed progenitors that express high levels of transferrin receptor (iron acquisition receptor), the erythropoietin receptor (EpoR), some c-Kit (stem cell factor receptor), and are Ter119 (cell surface molecule)-positive.
Their proliferative capacity is more limited compared to the preceding stage, the CFU-e. In vivo, starting with the proerythroblast stage, erythroid cells undergo several more cell divisions while at the same time upregulating survival genes such as Bcl-xL, acquiring and storing large amounts of iron, ramping up the synthesis of hemoglobin and other erythroid genes (in large part a GATA-1 dependent process that is augmented by the EpoR signaling) and decreasing in cell size, eventually removing their nuclei and being released into the bloodstream as a reticulocyte.
The chemical 2,3,5 trimethylphenyl methylcarbamate is a brown crystalline solid that is non-corrosive and is used as an insecticide.
2,3,5 trimethylphenyl methylcarbamate is an organophosphate and cholinesterase inhibitor.
It is extremely toxic or fatal if inhaled or ingested and can cause serious burns if it comes in contact with the skin or eyes.
2,3,5 trimethylphenyl methylcarbamate can break down if heated, producing corrosive and/or toxic gases.
Buprenorphine (tradename Buprenex), is a long-lasting, high affinity opioid that acts on the same receptors as heroin and morphine but does not produce the same intense high or dangerous side effects.
It is used for the treatment of pain and opioid dependence.
The major buprenorphine metabolites are norbuprenorphine, buprenorphine-3-glucuronide (B3G), and norbuprenorphine-3-glucuronide (N3G).
The analysis of buprenorphine and metabolites is performed to monitor compliance to drug therapy.
Carbinoxamine (Clistin, Palgic) antihistamine and anticholinergic.
It is approved by the FDA for hay fever (a.k.a. allergic rhinitis, SAR and PAR); vasomotor rhinitis; mild urticaria; angioedema, dermatographism and allergic conjunctivitis.
The Semliki Forest virus was first isolated from mosquitoes in the Semliki Forest, Uganda by the Uganda Virus Research Institute in 1942 and described by Smithburn & Haddow.
It is known to cause disease in both animals and man.
It is an Alphavirus found in central, eastern, and southern Africa.
The Semliki Forest virus is a positive-stranded RNA virus with a genome of approximately 13,000 base pairs which encodes nine proteins.
Semliki Forest virus is spread mainly by mosquito bites.
It is not able to infect mammals through inhalation or gastrointestinal exposure, although rodents in the laboratory can be infected by intranasal instillation.
The virus is able to cause a lethal encephalitis in rodents, but generally only mild symptoms in humans.
Semliki Forest virus has been used extensively in biological research as a model of the viral life cycle and of viral neuropathy.
Due to its broad host range and efficient replication, it has also been developed as a vector for genes encoding vaccines and anti-cancer agents, and as a tool in gene therapy.
Propan-1-ol is a primary alcohol with the molecular formula of C3H8O.
It is also known as 1-propanol, 1-propyl alcohol, n-propyl alcohol, n-propanol, or simply propanol.
It is an isomer of propan-2-ol.
It is used as a solvent in the pharmaceutical industry, and for resins and cellulose esters.
It is formed naturally in small amounts during many fermentation processes.
The neoplastic lymphocytes seen in Large Granular Lymphocytic Leukemia are large in size with azurophilic granules that contains proteins involved in cell lysis such as perforin and granzyme B.
Opipramol is an atypical antidepressant and anxiolytic drug.
It is structurally similar to tricyclic antidepressants, but it has a different mechanism of action.
Opipramol is a sigma-receptor agonist at both the sigma-1 and sigma-2 receptors, which give it antidepressant and anxiolytic effects, respectively.
It also blocks histamine, serotonin, dopamine and alpha-1 adrenergic receptors, but does not affect norepinephrine, dopamine, or serotonin reuptake.
Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) is a member of the herpes-virus family and is the causative agent of infectious mononucleosis(IM).
EBV is one of the most common human viruses.
Antibodies to the following antigen complexes can be measured: viral capsid antigen(VCA), early antigen (EA), and EBV nuclear antigen (EBNA).
Early antigen antibodies are transient and may last only 1-2 months.
EBV early antigen consists of two components: diffuse and restricted.
Antibody response to EA in IM is usually to the D(diffuse) component, while silent seroconversion to EBV in children usually produces antibodies to the restricted component.
tert-Butyl acetate, or t-butyl acetate is a colorless flammable liquid with a camphor- or blueberry-like smell.
It is used as a solvent in the production of lacquers, enamels, inks, adhesives, thinners and industrial cleaners.
It has recently gained EPA VOC exempt status.
Butyl acetate has four isomers: tert-butyl acetate, n-butyl acetate, isobutyl acetate, and sec-butyl acetate.
Ribes uva-crispa, commonly known as European gooseberry, is a flowering shrub belonging to the currant family, Grossulariaceaeis.
It is an edible plant and is thought to have some use for topical wound healing.
The interRAI Community Health Assessment (interRAI CHA) instrument and its accompanying supplements comprise a robust assessment system.
Everyone receives the core assessment called CHA; only those with specific problem sets receive one or more of the following four supplements: 1) The interRAI Functional Supplement (interRAI CHA-FS) includes an expanded set of functional and clinical items that informs and guides comprehensive care and service planning for more challenged persons in community-based settings; 2) The interRAI Mental Health Supplement (interRAI CHA-MH) includes an expanded item set on mental health- related diagnoses, symptoms, treatments, and life experiences.
The items in this supplement describe the performance and capacity of the person in a variety of domains, with the majority of items serving as specific triggers for care planning.
As with the interRAI CHA-FS, the goal is to use this information to identify individual needs and appropriate interventions; 3) The interRAI Assisted Living Supplement (interRAI CHA-AL) evaluates the needs, strengths, and preferences of persons served by various types of residential care facilities.
The items identify functional, medical, and social issues that are either presently limiting the quality of life or functional status of the person or that are likely to become limiting for the person, if unaddressed; and 4) The interRAI Deafblind Supplement (interRAI CHA-Db) is a standardized set of items that evaluate the strengths, preferences, and needs of persons with dual sensory loss.
The items in this supplement extend the CHA's assessment of the dimensions of vision and hearing to address patterns of impairment and change in these senses for persons with both congenital and acquired deafblindness.
The CHA-Db also includes items on communication systems, orientation and mobility, and use of interpreters and intervenors.
Meadow foxtail is a grass species producing pollen, which may induce hayfever, asthma and conjunctivitis in sensitised individuals.
This plant is native to non-Mediterranean Europe and temperate Asia, and perhaps also to non-desert parts of North Africa.
It is cultivated for forage in Australia, New Zealand and North America.
Meadow Foxtail grass pollen may induce asthma, allergic rhinitis and allergic conjunctivitis.
The organic compound 1,1,1-trichloroethane is a chloroalkane.
This colorless, sweet-smelling liquid was produced industrially in large quantities for use as a solvent.
Although not as toxic as many similar compounds, inhaled or ingested 1,1,1-trichloroethane does act as a central nervous system depressant and can cause effects similar to those of intoxication, including dizziness, confusion, and in sufficiently high concentrations, unconsciousness and death.
Fatal poisonings have been reported and illness linked to trichloroethane from intentional inhalation in the 1980s.
The removal of the chemical from correction fluid commenced due to Proposition 65 declaring it hazardous and toxic.
Prolonged skin contact with the liquid can result in the removal of fats from the skin, resulting in chronic skin irritation.
Studies on laboratory animals have shown that 1,1,1-trichloroethane is not retained in the body for long periods of time.
However, chronic exposure has been linked to abnormalities in the liver, kidneys, and heart.
Pregnant women should avoid exposure, as the compound has been linked to birth defects in laboratory animals.
Norquetiapine is the primary active metabolite of the parent drug quetiapine and is used to treat bipolar depression, major depressive episodes, and generalized anxiety disorder.
Norquetiapine, unlike quetiapine but similar to some other antidepressants, prevents the reuptake of norepinephrine (NE) at the noradrenaline transporter (NET).
The NET is a protein on the surface of noradrenergic neurons that controls the activity of NE by transporting it into the cytoplasm of the noradrenergic neurons.
Norquetiapine partially activates the 5-HT1A receptors which, with the NET, is thought to have antidepressant responses in the patient.
Quetiapine and norquetiapine act together against several target receptors, including NET, 5-HT1A, and 5-HT2, to treat antidepressant and anxiolytic symptoms of patients.
CD10, a type II transmembrane protein found on pre-B cells, germinal-center B cells, some neutrophils, kidney cells, T-cell precursors, and epithelial cells that acts as a zinc metalloprotease cleaving peptide bonds on the amino side of hydrophobic amino acids; expressed in acute lymphocytic leukemia and follicular-center-cell lymphomas.
The FLNA gene (filamin A, alpha) is located on chromosome Xq28.
The protein encoded by this gene is an actin-binding protein that crosslinks actin filaments and links actin filaments to membrane glycoproteins.
The encoded protein is involved in remodeling the cytoskeleton to effect changes in cell shape and migration.
This protein interacts with integrins, transmembrane receptor complexes, and second messengers.
Defects in this gene are a cause of several syndromes, including periventricular nodular heterotopias (PVNH1, PVNH4), otopalatodigital syndromes (OPD1, OPD2), frontometaphyseal dysplasia (FMD), Melnick-Needles syndrome (MNS), and X-linked congenital idiopathic intestinal pseudoobstruction (CIIPX).
Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
The MYH7 gene (myosin, heavy chain 7, cardiac muscle, beta) is located on chromosome 14q12.
Muscle myosin is a hexameric protein containing 2 heavy chain subunits, 2 alkali light chain subunits, and 2 regulatory light chain subunits.
This gene encodes the beta (or slow) heavy chain subunit of cardiac myosin.
It is expressed predominantly in normal human ventricle.
It is also expressed in skeletal muscle tissues rich in slow-twitch type I muscle fibers.
Changes in the relative abundance of this protein and the alpha (or fast) heavy subunit of cardiac myosin correlate with the contractile velocity of cardiac muscle.
Its expression is also altered during thyroid hormone depletion and hemodynamic overloading.
Mutations in this gene are associated with familial hypertrophic cardiomyopathy, myosin storage myopathy, dilated cardiomyopathy, and Laing early-onset distal myopathy.
Kynurenine is a metabolite of the amino acid tryptophan used in the production of niacin.
L-kynurenine is a central compound of the pathway of tryptophan metabolism pathway since it can change to the neuroprotective agent kynurenic acid or to the neurotoxic agent quinolinic acid.
The break-up of these endogenous compounds' balance can be observable in many disorders.
It can occur in neurodegenerative disorders, such as Parkinson's disease, Huntington's and Alzheimer's disease, in stroke, in epilepsy, in multiple sclerosis, in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, and in mental failures, such as schizophrenia and depression.
Trichinella is the genus of parasitic roundworms of the phylum Nematoda that cause trichinosis.
Members of this genus are often called trichinella or trichina worms.
A characteristic of nematoda are one-way digestive tract, and a pseudoceolom (body cavity made up of only an ectoderm and endoderm).
Temafloxacin (marketed by as Omniflox), is a fluoroquinolone antibiotic drug which was withdrawn from sale in the U.S. shortly after its approval in 1992 because of serious adverse reactions resulting in three deaths.
Liley Zone is a rough measure of the amount of bilirubin present.
Liley plotted semilogarithmically the OD-450 vs. week of gestation and divided the results into 3 main zones based upon the degree of fetal involvement, Zone III: severe disease,Zone II: intermediate (mild-moderate) disease and Zone
I : Rh-negative unaffected or mildly affected infant.
Terconazole is an anti-fungal medication, primarily used to treat vaginal fungal infections.
If the epithelial cells or other materials do not become immediately incorporated within the hyaline material, they tend to degenerate into coarse granules.
These granules then adhere to the casts, thereby forming coarsely granular casts.
Since coarsely granular casts contain large granules, they are darker in color than finely granular casts.
They can even be dark brown as a result of altered blood pigments.
U.S. Army Medical Department Center and School.
Babesia divergens-like MO-1 strain is a parasite that invades human red blood cells and is transmitted by the Ixodid tick.
Infection by the Babesia species was first discovered in Croatia in 1957, but has proven to exist across the world in the last fifty years.
B. divergens-like Missouri strain primarily infects humans who live in Missouri, Kentucky, and Washington state.
The Babesia parasites possess vesicles that secrete enzymes that facilitates its entrance into the host erythrocytes.
They reproduces asexually in red blood cells and sexually in the Ixodid tick.
Infection with Babesia leads to a wide range and severity of symptoms.
Symptoms that are characterized as mild to moderate include fever, fatigue, chills, sweats, headache, myalgia, anorexia cough, arthralgia and nausea.
Symptoms of severe illness are seen most often in patients who are immunosuppressed due to infections like Human immunodeficiency virus and conditions such as cancer.
Severe symptoms of Babesia infection include respiratory failure, disseminated intravascular coagulation, congestive heart failure, liver and renal failure, and splenic infarction.
Infection with Babesia divergens-like Missouri strain consistently causes symptoms that are life threatening.
There are several ways to diagnose infections with Babesia including thick and thin smear analysis, polymerase chain reaction, indirect immunofluorescence antibody, and by injecting patient blood into a hamster and waiting for severe parasitemia to develop in 2-4 weeks.
Treatment of Babesia infection is with antibiotics or exchange transfusion when the parasite load in the blood becomes very high.
The European Group for Blood and Marrow Transplantation (EBMT) risk score is used to quickly determine the likelihood of favorable outcomes for an individual considering stem cell transplantation.
The score is based on five factors related to the patient and the possible donor and include: age of the patient, stage of the disease, time from diagnosis, donor type and donor recipient gender combination.
The possible scores range from 0-7, with worsening transplant outcomes as the risk score increases.
The EBMT risk score remains valid for all acquired hematological disorders, for allogeneic and autologous HSCT (score 0-5), and is not influenced by the type of technology used or by standard or reduced conditioning.
Stem cell transplantation is invariably less successful in older patients with advanced disease, longer time since diagnosis, and with a mismatched donor, than in younger patients who received their transplant quickly while their disease was at an early stage and using a well-matched donor.
The EBMT risk score gives patients a better idea of the likelihood of surviving a HSCT, giving them the choice of other non-transplant options.
Pregnancy-associated plasma protein A (PAPP-A), an important pregnancy protein is a major biochemical marker of Down syndrome in the first trimester of pregnancy.
The gene of PAPP-A is assigned to human chromosome 9q 33.1.
PAPP-A belongs to the metzincin superfamily of metalloproteinases.
Maternal serum levels of PAPP-A in the first trimester are significantly lower if the fetus is affected by Down syndrome.
Low first trimester maternal serum levels are found not only in trisomy 21 but also in non-Down syndrome fetal aneuploidies.
PAPP-A may also be an indicator of stable and unstable angina pectoris.
Lactyl lactate was originally reported to be found in patients with inherited metabolic diseases.
However, further investigation found that the presence of lactyl lactate (a lactic acid dimer) may actually be an artifact in the GC-MS analysis of urine with massive lactic acid aciduria.
Acinetobacter is a group of gram negative bacteria found in soil and water and a common source of infection in patients, primarily in intensive care units and healthcare settings with very ill patients.
Among the Acinetobacter species, Acinetobacter baumannii accounts for about 80% of reported infections.
Symptoms range from pneumonia to serious blood or wound infections.
Acinetobacter-related infections rarely occur outside of healthcare settings.
Acinetobacter species are resistant to many classes of antibiotics, so treatment is determined on a case-by-case basis.
The FOXL2 (forkhead box L2) gene is located on chromosome 3 at position q22.3.
This gene encodes a forkhead transcription factor.
The protein contains a fork-head DNA-binding domain and may play a role in ovarian development and function.
Expansion of a polyalanine repeat region and other mutations in this gene are a cause of blepharophimosis syndrome and premature ovarian failure 3.
Hantavirus is a genus of viruses transmitted by rodent urine, saliva or feces.
Hantavirus infections may result in Hantavirus Pulmonary Syndrome (HPS) or Hemorrhagic Fever with Renal Syndrome (HFRS).
Due to variations in the host rodent species, diverse hantavirus strains can be found throughout the world.
In conjunction with history of exposure, serologic assays are used to detect the presence of hantavirus antibodies.
The specific assays used varies from lab to lab, but may include enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA), Western blot assay, or rapid immunoblot strip assay (RIBA).
The D842V (Asp842Val) mutation is located in exon 18 of the PDGFRA gene.
The mutation has been found in a subset of patient's with gastrointestinal stromal tumors (GISTs).
D842V is known to cause resistance to imatinib, a tyrosine kinase inhibitor.
To capture the standardized data about a drug (other than the bulk ingredient API) that is in an interim stage of manufacture, processing, preparation, or packaging, and not ready for human or animal use.
Monounsaturated fatty acids (MUFAs or also called monounsaturated fats) are fatty acids that have a single double bond in the fatty acid chain with all of the remainder carbon atoms being single-bonded.
By contrast, polyunsaturated fatty acids (PUFAs) have more than one double bond.
Common monounsaturated fatty acids are palmitoleic acid, cis-vaccenic acid, and oleic acid.
MUFAs are good fats that are liquid at room temperature, and turn solid when chilled.
Common sources of MUFAs are olive oil, avocadoes and nuts.
Other oils high in monounsaturated fats are; canola oil, peanut oil, safflower oil, and sesame oil.
MUFAs are a healthy alternative to the trans fats and refined polyunsaturated fats found in most processed foods.
Platelet glycoprotein IV (CD36) is an antigen expressed on platelets as well as several other cell types, such as monocytes, endothelial cells, and epithelial cells.
Detection of antibodies directed against platelet glycoprotein IV and other glycoprotein-specific platelet antibodies (GP IIb/IIIa, GP Ib/IX, GP Ia/IIa) can help differentiate between immune and nonimmune disorders in patients with thrombocytopenia.
Influenza D virus (IDV), has been identified in swine, cattle, sheep and goats with cattle as a natural reservoir.
IDV appears to predispose animals to bovine respiratory disease and studies indicate that the virus can infect humans, particularly workers who have direct contact with cattle.
Mimosa is a genus of about 400 species of herbs and shrubs, in the subfamily Mimosoideae of the legume family Fabaceae.
There are two species in the genus that are notable.
One is Mimosa pudica, because of the way it folds its leaves when touched or exposed to heat.
It is native to southern Mexico, Central America and South America but is widely cultivated elsewhere for its curiosity value, both as a houseplant in temperate areas, and outdoors in the tropics.
Two types of FcεR are known:
The high-affinity receptor FcεRI is a member of the immunoglobulin superfamily (it has two Ig-like domains).
FcεRI is found on epidermal Langerhans cells, eosinophils, mast cells and basophils.
As a result of its cellular distribution, this receptor plays a major role in controlling allergic responses.
FcεRI is also expressed on antigen-presenting cells, and controls the production of important immune mediators called cytokines that promote inflammation.
The low-affinity receptor FcεRII (CD23) is a C-type lectin.
FcεRII has multiple functions as a membrane-bound or soluble receptor; it controls B cell growth and differentiation and blocks IgE-binding of eosinophils, monocytes, and basophils.
A species of parasitic nematode found in the intestine of dogs.
Lesions in the brain, liver, eye, kidney, and lung are caused by migrating larvae.
In humans, these larvae do not follow normal patterns and may produce visceral larva migrans (LARVA MIGRANS, VISCERAL).
Amitriptyline hydrochloride (sold as Elavil ®, Tryptanol ®, Endep ®, Elatrol ®, Tryptizol ®, Trepiline ®) is a tricyclic antidepressant drug.
It is a white, odorless, crystalline compound which is freely soluble in water and usually dispensed in tablet form.
An enzyme produced by hemolytic streptococci.
It hydrolyzes amide linkages and serves as an activator of plasminogen.
It is used in thrombolytic therapy and is used also in mixtures with streptodornase (STREPTODORNASE AND STREPTOKINASE).
The human leukocyte antigen B (HLA-B) plays an important role in how the immune system recognizes and responds to pathogens.
HLA-B belongs to a class of molecules that are found on the surface of most cells.
These molecules are responsible for presenting peptides to immune cells.
Peptides derived from normal human proteins are recognized as such, whereas foreign peptides derived from pathogens trigger an immune response.
The antiretroviral medication abacavir specifically interacts with HLA-B*57:01 and alters the repertoire of self-peptides that are presented to T lymphocytes, which activates an immune reaction known as a hypersensitivity reaction.
Aripiprazole (brand name Abilify) is in the atypical antipsychotics drug class and used to treat the symptoms of schizophrenia in adults and teenagers.
Other uses include; treatment for episodes of mania or mixed episodes in adults, teenagers, and children 10 years of age and older with bipolar disorder, as an antidepressant to treat depression when symptoms cannot be controlled by the antidepressant alone, and to treat children 6 to 17 years of age who have autistic disorder.
Aripiprazole is not approved by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for the treatment in older adults with dementia as there is an increased chance of stroke or death during treatment.
Use is associated with hyperglycemia.
Pinus pinea, commonly called Stone pine, Italian stone pine, umbrella pine and parasol pine, is a tree belonging to the Pinaceae family.
The tree is native to the Mediterranean region and naturalized in other areas of the world, including North Africa, the Canary Islands, South Africa and New South Wales.
Stone pines are cultivated for their edible pine nuts, timber production, and as an ornamental tree around the world.
The Japanese Flying Squid or Japanese Common Squid, Todarodes pacificus, is a squid of the family Ommastrephidae.
This animal lives in the northern Pacific Ocean, in the area surrounding Japan, up the full coast of China up to Russia, then spreading across the Bering Straight over towards the lower coast of Alaska and the coast of Canada.
They tend to cluster around the central region of Vietnam.
Lobster is a large 10-footed, long-tailed crustacean with large claws known for their meat.
The European lobster is Homarus gammarus, the American is Homarus americanus, which together account for nearly 100% of the world's commercial catch.
Some allergenic determinants are shared by other members of the Crustacea group, including shrimp, crab, crayfish, and spiny lobster(langust).
Skin sensitivity to lobster has been reported, especially due to occupational exposure within the fish industry.
Coccidioidomycosis, also known as Valley Fever, is caused by two species of soil-dwelling fungi, Coccidioides immitis and C. posadasii.
It is common in the southwestern United States, Mexico, and South America and is transmitted by inhalation, frequently after contaminated soil is disrupted, such as by construction or natural events such as earthquakes or dust storms.
Infections range from asymptomatic to life-threatening, and the clinical presentation is the same for both species.
In about 40% of patients, symptoms begin one to three weeks after exposure and include cough, shortness of breath, headache, fatigue, and rash.
Up to 10% of patients develop pulmonary complications or chronic disease, and about one percent of patients develop disseminated infection involving meninges (i.e., meningitis), soft tissues, and bones or joints.
Patients who are immunocompromised are more likely to develop more severe disease.
Nevirapine is a Nonnucleoside Reverse Transcriptase Inhibitor (Non-NRTI) antiretroviral drug used in the treatment of HIV.
Drug resistance reports assist with treatment decisions.
The Beryllium Lymphocyte Proliferation Test (BeLPT) is a laboratory test that examines how a type of disease-fighting blood cell in our bodies -- called lymphocytes -- reacts to beryllium.
It is performed on blood drawn from a vein in your arm.
If the BeLPT determines that you have been sensitized to beryllium, you may wish to pursue further medical evaluation to find out if you have Chronic Beryllium Disease (CBD).
A narcotic analgesic and antitussive.
It is metabolized in the liver by ETHYLMORPHINE-N-DEMETHYLASE and used as an indicator of liver function.
A patient's cognitive status (e.g., mood, memory, ability to make decisions) and issues that limit cognition (e.g., amnesia, dementia, aggressive behavior).
May include assessment scale observations, identify caregivers, and provide information about non-medicinal supplies.
USA HCG Reference Service:
Synthesis and Degradation of HCG
MIB-1 is a proliferation marker that correlates with flow cytometric S-phase.
Breast cancer specimens with greater than 20% MIB-1 positivity will generally have a high S-phase fraction, which is an unfavorable prognostic marker.
Major metabolite of Androgen
Basophilic stippling represents the spontaneous aggregation of ribosomal RNA in the cytoplasm of erythrocytes.
The accumulation of these dots is pathologic and has been associated with sideroblastic anemia, lead poisoning, megaloblastic anemia and possibly beta thalassemia.
Latin name: Iva ciliata/Iva annua.
Rough Marshelder is native to Northern America, in particular to Mexico, and to Nebraska and Texas in the USA.
Rough Marshelder pollen frequently induces asthma, allergic rhinitis and allergic conjunctivitis in sensitized individuals.
Contact with the leaves may result in contact dermatitis.
Optical coherence tomography (OCT) is a non-invasive imaging technique that provides an in vivo, cross-sectional view of the retina.
There are 6 retinal layers viewable with OCT: the nerve fiber layer (NFL), the inner plexiform layer and ganglion cell layer (IPL+GCL), the inner nuclear layer (INL), the outer plexiform layer (OPL), the outer nuclear layer and photoreceptor inner segments (ONL+PIS), and photoreceptor outer segments (POS).
OCT uses low-coherence interferometry to provide very accurate cross-sectional images.
Two forms of OCT are time domain and spectral domain.
Spectral domain has replaced the former because of its speed (20,000+ scans per second to avoid motion artifacts) and high resolution, and it can both visualize and measure the thickness of the retinal pigment epithelium and the nerve fiber layer adjacent to the optic disc.
Strontium is a chemical element in the periodic table that has the symbol Sr and the atomic number 38.
An alkaline earth metal, strontium is a soft silver-white or yellowish metallic element that is highly reactive chemically.
The metal turns yellow when exposed to air.
It occurs naturally in the minerals celestite and strontianite.
The 90Sr isotope is present in radioactive fallout and has a half-life of 28.90 years.
A clear, colorless liquid rapidly absorbed from the gastrointestinal tract and distributed throughout the body.
It has bactericidal activity and is used often as a topical disinfectant.
It is widely used as a solvent and preservative in pharmaceutical preparations as well as serving as the primary ingredient in alcoholic beverages.
An enzyme, which may result in allergy symptoms in sensitised individuals.
Papain is a proteolytic enzyme found mainly in the unripe fruit of the Papaya tree.
It is made from the latex of the full grown but unripe Papaya fruit; it is also present in the leaves and trunk, and is found even during various stages of ripening after incision of the unripe fruit.
Papain can induce IgE allergy reactions through different routes: respiratory, contact, or digestive.
The most common sensitisation route is inhalation.
The rate of sensitisation is high.
Occupational allergy to Papain in exposed workers was described some years ago; workers presented with bronchial asthma, rhinitis or both.
In most of the cases, specific IgE was positive.
Contact with Papain may also result in anaphylaxis.
Pea probably originated in south-western Asia, but it spread nearly throughout the world.
Green peas are the number-one processed vegetable in the UK and the USA.
The plant is an annual, dwarf or climbing, growing as high as 2 m. The Pea is a small, round, smooth or wrinkled seed, growing in pods.
Legumes are among the most common foods causing allergic reactions in children and adults.
Pea, a legume, may commonly induce symptoms of food allergy in sensitised individuals, and IgE antibodies to Pea have been detected in sensitised individuals.
Symptoms reported include atopic dermatitis, asthma, rhinitis, angioedema, dermatitis, oral pruritis, nausea, vomiting, and diarrhoea.
Goat milk often appears as a substitute for cow milk, particularly in diets administered by parents to children with atopic dermatitis.
Some cow milk-allergic children may tolerate goat milk.
However, there appears to be evidence for crossreactivity between goat milk and cow milk.
In a study of crossreactivity of the casein fractions among different species, the IgE response to ewe and goat milk was weaker than that to cow and buffalo.
14/16 patients with cow milk allergy had specific IgE antibodies to goas milk.
Serum albumin and caseins show homology to the corresponding proteins of cow and sheep.
A nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory agent with potent analgesic and antiarthritic properties.
It has been shown to be effective in the treatment of OSTEOARTHRITIS; RHEUMATOID ARTHRITIS; ankylosing SPONDYLITIS; and in the alleviation of postoperative pain (PAIN, POSTOPERATIVE).
The SH3TC2 gene (SH3 domain and tetratricopeptide repeats 2) is located on chromosome 5q32.
This gene encodes a protein with two N-terminal Src homology 3 (SH3) domains and 10 tetratricopeptide repeat (TPR) motifs, and is a member of a small gene family.
The gene product has been proposed to be an adapter or docking molecule.
Mutations in this gene result in autosomal recessive Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease type 4C, a childhood-onset neurodegenerative disease characterized by demyelination of motor and sensory neurons.
A substance made by the parathyroid gland that helps the body store and use calcium.
A higher-than-normal amount of parathyrin causes high levels of calcium in the blood and may be a sign of disease.
Also called parathormone, parathyroid hormone, and PTH.
Actinobacillus pleuropneumoniae is species of gram-negative, facultatively anaerobic coccobacillus-shaped bacteria that has been isolated from pneumonic lesions and blood in pigs.
It produces pneumonia with accompanying fibrinous pleuritis in swine.
In vitro test to measure component of cell-mediated immune reactivity to M. tuberculosis based on the quantification of interferon-gamma released from sensitized WBC incubated overnight with purified PPD and control Ag.
Garlic is a small, very pungent Onion-like plant.
It has been used for millennia (it was mentioned in 1550 BC) as a flavouring and a medicine, and is now important in many cuisines worldwide.
In some parts of the world, Garlic's use also has religious connotations.
Garlic can induce symptoms of food allergy in sensitised individuals.
Garlic is well-known cause of contact dermatitis and asthma.
However, it is thought to be an uncommon cause of food or other allergy in children
A promonocyte (or premonocyte) is a cell arising from a monoblast and developing into a monocyte.
Thymidine is non-toxic and is a naturally occurring compound that exists in all living organisms and DNA viruses.
25% of DNA is composed of thymidine.
RNA does not have thymidine and has uridine instead.
Thymidine is a chemical compound which is a pyrimidine nucleoside.
Thymidine is the DNA base T, which pairs with adenosine in double stranded DNA.
A tricyclic dibenzazepine compound that potentiates neurotransmission.
Desipramine selectively blocks reuptake of norepinephrine from the neural synapse, and also appears to impair serotonin transport.
This compound also possesses minor anticholinergic activity, through its affinity to muscarinic receptors.
An immunosuppressive agent used in combination with cyclophosphamide and hydroxychloroquine in the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis.
According to the Fourth Annual Report on Carcinogens (NTP 85-002, 1985), this substance has been listed as a known carcinogen.
(Merck Index, 11th ed)
Major metabolite of Tamoxifen
Suppression of tumorigenicity 2 (ST2) is a member of the interleukin 1 receptor family.
It was discovered in 1989, but in 2002 it was realized that ST2 was excreted by cardiac fibroblasts and cardiomyocytes in response to stress.
ST2 has two isoforms which are the transmembrane form (ST2L) and the soluble form (sST2).
They both bind to the ligand Interleukin-33 (IL-33).
When IL-33 binds to ST2L, the complex provides cardiac protection by reducing myocardial fibrosis, cardiomyocyte hypertrophy, apoptosis, and improving myocardial function.
When cardiac injury occurs, the IL-33/ST2 system is upregulated in cardiomyocytes and fibroblasts.
sST2 becomes strongly attracted to IL-33, competing with ST2L for binding sites.
The IL-33/sST2 system counteracts the cardiac protection provided by the IL-33/ST2L system.
sST2 concentrations are believed to be associated with cardiovascular stress and fibrosis.
As a biomarker, sST2 is a strong predictor of both chronic and acute heart failure outcomes.
sST2 does not appear to be significantly affected by age, gender, body mass index, and renal function.
A description of the goals for risk evaluation and mitigation strategies (REMS) information, to standardize REMS information for inclusion into pharmacy systems using structured product labeling (SPL).
Rickettsia australis is a bacterium that causes a condition called Queensland tick typhus.
PRESSURE of the BLOOD on the ARTERIES and other BLOOD VESSELS.
A genus of gram-negative, mostly facultatively anaerobic bacteria in the family mycoplasmataceae.
The cells are bounded by a plasma membrane and lack a true cell wall.
These pathogens are found on the mucous membranes of humans, animals and birds.
The interRAI Palliative Care (PC) Assessment System was developed to provide a comprehensive assessment of the strengths, preferences, and needs of adults in both hospice and palliative care.
Following testing in Canada, Czech Republic, Iceland, Netherlands, Sweden, Spain, and the U.S., the first version was released in 2003.
The system has since been updated as part of interRAI's restructuring initiative to ensure that all of our instruments contain common items and definitions for overlapping clinical content.
A non-steroidal anti-inflammatory agent (NSAID) that inhibits the enzyme cyclooxygenase necessary for the formation of prostaglandins and other autacoids.
It also inhibits the motility of polymorphonuclear leukocytes.
The S202C/G/I mutations are associated with Entecavir resistance
Luteinizing hormone (LH) is a hormone synthesized and secreted by gonadotropes in the anterior lobe of the pituitary gland.
In concert with the other pituitary gonadotropin follicle stimulating hormone (FSH) it is necessary for proper reproductive function.
In females, an acute rise of LH triggers ovulation and in males, where LH had also been called Interstitial Cell Stimulating Hormone (ICSH), it stimulates Leydig cell production of testosterone.
The distance from the most anterior portion of the forehead to soft tissue Glabella, perpendicular to the Frankfort horizontal plane
Anti-Jk^a can cause severe and fatal hemolytic transfusion reactions but is more commonly associated with less severe Delayed Hemolytic Transfusion Reactions (DHTRs).
It has been estimated that over one-third of DHTRs are caused by anti-Jk^a.
Jk^a can be found in 77% Caucasians, 92% Blacks, and 73% Asians populations.
Beck L, Blood groups and red cell antigens. .
Purkinje cell cytoplasmic antibody type 1 (PCA-1) (or anti-Yo) is detected in patients with gynecological or breast adenocarcinoma who present with paraneoplastic cerebellar degeneration.
PCA-1 autoimmunity most commonly affects the cerebellum, but the spectrum of neurological symptoms and presentations is broad.
Non-cerebellar tissue in the central, peripheral and autonomic nervous systems may also be involved.
Neurological outcomes are usually poor, even when cancer remission is achieved.
Aztreonam is a beta lactam antibiotic used totreat infection caused by gram-negative bacteria.
It is inactivated by extended spectrum beta lactamase producing bacteria.
Lathyrus sativus, is a legume (family Fabaceae) commonly grown for human consumption and livestock feed in Asia and East Africa.
Total number of cells karotyped.
Parathion is an extremely toxic cholinesterase acaricide and insecticide used on agricultural crops including fruit, cotton, wheat, and nuts.
In humans, parathion is severely toxic if inhaled, ingested, or absorbed through the skin or the eyes.
Symptoms of acute exposure to parathion include irritation to eyes or skin, respiratory system, blurring or dimness of vision, rhinorrhea, headache, chest tightness, wheezing, laryngeal spasm, salivation, cyanosis, anorexia, nausea, vomiting, abdominal cramps, diarrhea, sweating, muscle fasciculation, lassitude, paralysis, dizziness, confusion, ataxia, convulsions, coma, low blood pressure, and cardiac irregularities.
Parathion is classified as a possible human carcinogen and teratogen.
It is also dangerously toxic to aquatic life.
Mucosa-associated lymphoid tissue lymphoma translocation protein 1 is a protein that in humans is encoded by the MALT1 gene.
This gene has been found to be recurrently rearranged in chromosomal translocation with two other genes - baculoviral IAP repeat-containing protein 3 (also known as apoptosis inhibitor 2) and immunoglobulin heavy chain locus - in mucosa-associated lymphoid tissue lymphomas.
The protein encoded by this gene may play a role in NF-kappaB activation.
Two alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been described for this gene.
Mutations in the GFM1 gene are associated with combined oxidative phosphorylation deficiency 1 (COXPD1), a mitochondrial disease resulting in early rapidly progressive hepatoencephalopathy.
Trypsin is an enzyme that catalyses the cleavage of peptide linkages involving carboxy group of either arginine or lysine.
It is secreted by pancrease as trypsinogen and converted to its active form in the intestine.
Creosol is an ingredient of creosote.
Compared with phenol, creosol is a less toxic disinfectant.
Normally, the angle between the nail plate and the skin overlying the proximal part of the distal finger is about 160 degrees.
With nail clubbing, proliferation of the nail bed (tissue under the nail plate) causes this angle to increase to more than 160 degrees.
The angle may be entirely lost with the nail plate and skin forming a straight line (180-degree angle).
As clubbing progresses, the profile of the fingertip becomes bulbous and the angle eventually exceeds 180 degrees.
Concave (spooning) nails may be present in patient's with iron deficiency anemia.
Clot size is measured in terms of the length of a fibrin clot.
A genus of gram-negative, aerobic, rod-shaped bacteria often surrounded by a protein microcapsular layer and slime layer.
The natural cycle of its organisms generally involves a vertebrate and an invertebrate host.
Species of the genus are the etiological agents of human diseases, such as typhus.
An essential amino acid that is physiologically active in the L-form.
The diagnosis of dermal or cutaneous leishmaniasis is more difficult than the visceral form, since a detectable immune response is often absent.
Also, since cross-reactions may occur, e.g., Chagas' disease, malaria, schistosomiasis, positive results provide only suggestive support for the diagnosis.
The CD79A and CD79B genes, located on chromosomes 19 and 17, respectively, encode the alpha and beta chains of the B-cell antigen receptor complex-associated protein.
When an antigen binds to the B-cell antigen receptor (BCR) complex, the B-cell antigen receptor complex-associated protein initiates a signal transduction cascade that results in internalization of the BCR complex, transport to late endosomes, and antigen presentation.
The beta chain also plays a role in phosphorylation of the alpha chain.
Mutations in CD79B are associated with agammaglobulinemia 6, an autosomal recessive disease associated with low or absent serum antibodies and circulating B-cells that is characterized by severe infections early in childhood.
Sex chromosome aneuploidy is a condition in which there are extra or missing X or Y chromosomes.
Typically, a female has two X chromosomes (XX) and a male has one X and one Y (XY).
Examples of sex chromosome aneuploidies include XXX, XXY, XYY, and XO (presence of only one sex chromosome).
Each of these aneuploidies may be associated with different clinical syndromes.
Keratin 20, often abbreviated CK20, is a protein that in humans is encoded by the KRT20 gene.
Keratin 20 is a type I cytokeratin.
It is a major cellular protein of mature enterocytes and goblet cells and is specifically found in the gastric and intestinal mucosa.
In immunohistochemistry, antibodies to CK20 can be used to identify a range of adenocarcinomata arising from epithelia that normally contain the CK20 protein.
For example, the protein is commonly found in colorectal cancer, transitional cell carcinomas and in Merkel cell tumours, but is absent in lung cancer, prostate cancer, and non-mucinous ovarian cancer.
It is often used in combination with antibodies to CK7 to distinguish different types of glandular tumour.
Cloves are native to the Moluccas (once known as the Spice Islands), but are now grown in other tropical areas throughout the world.
Cloves are extremely aromatic, with up to 15% essential oil (70 to 85% eugenol), and so have long been prized for their intense fragrance and burning taste, as well as their medicinal properties.
Anecdotal evidence suggests that clove may induce symptoms of food allergy in sensitised individuals; however, few studies have been reported to date.
FLAER qualification involves a fluorescent-labeled inactive toxin aerolysin, is considered to be more sensitive than flow cytometric quantification of antibody-binding to CD59 for PNH diagnosis.
Reported as either normal or abnormal expression, this test is part of GPI Linked Antigens test for Paroxysmal Nocturnal Hemoglobinuria (PNH).
Individuals without Paroxysmal Nocturnal Hemoglobinuria have normal expression of all glycosylphosphatidylinositol-linked antigens, CD14 (monocytes), CD59 (neutrophils), and CD59 (RBC) on perpheral blood leukocytes and erythrocytes, and normal expression of FLAER on neutrophils.
A synthetic fluoroquinolone (FLUOROQUINOLONES) antibacterial agent that inhibits the supercoiling activity of bacterial DNA GYRASE, halting DNA REPLICATION.
Quinoline is a heterocyclic aromatic organic compound.
It has the formula C9H7N and is a colorless hygroscopic liquid with a strong odour.
Aged samples, if exposed to light, become yellow and later brown.
Quinoline is only slightly soluble in cold water but dissolves readily in hot water and most organic solvents.
High levels of sarcosine may occur as a result of vitamin B2 insufficiency as vitamin B2 is required to metabolize sarcosine.
Information from Metamatrix Clinical Laboratory 2006 12 01.
The KCNN4 (potassium calcium-activated channel subfamily N member 4) gene is located on chromosome 19 at position q13.31.
The protein encoded by this gene is part of a potentially heterotetrameric voltage-independent potassium channel that is activated by intracellular calcium.
Activation is followed by membrane hyperpolarization, which promotes calcium influx.
The encoded protein may be part of the predominant calcium-activated potassium channel in T-lymphocytes.
This gene is similar to other KCNN family potassium channel genes, but it differs enough to possibly be considered as part of a new subfamily.
A non-glycosylated protein that is synthesized in the liver parenchymal cells, regulated by colloid osmotic pressure from interstitial fluid surrounding hepatocytes, and catabolized in nearly all organs.
Albumin comprises >50% of plasma proteins in plasma, CSF and urine, and therefore is a key contributor to intravascular oncotic pressure and regulating fluid concentration in tissues.
Albumin also binds and transports a variety of endogenous substances and medications.
Serum albumin measurement is a reflection of hydration and nutritional status, blood oncotic pressure, liver and kidney function, and other chronic diseases, and the ratio of albumin in the CSF and serum can be used to evaluate blood brain barrier disorders.
Urine albumin of less than 30 mg/day is considered normal.
Microalbuminuria is defined as urine albumin of 30-300 mg/day and is an early sign of kidney damage from disorders such as diabetes or hypertension.
Albuminuria is urine albumin >300 mg/day and is associated with overt kidney disease.
MNSs - Represents the MNSs blood group which in most individuals is M or N and S or s (lower case).
Glycophorins A (GYPA) and B (GYPB) are major sialoglycoproteins of the human erythrocyte membrane which bear the antigenic determinants for the MN and Ss blood groups.
GYPB gene consists of 5 exons and has 97% sequence homology with GYPA from the 5' UTR to the coding sequence encoding the first 45 amino acids.
In addition to the M or N and S or s antigens, that commonly occur in all populations, about 40 related variant phenotypes have been identified.
(Portions taken from wikipedia)
Furosemide (INN) or frusemide (former BAN) is a loop diuretic used in the treatment of congestive heart failure and edema.
It is most commonly marketed by Aventis Pharma under the brand name Lasix.
It has also been used to prevent thoroughbred race horses from bleeding through the nose during races.
Along with some other diuretics, furosemide is also included on the World Anti-Doping Agency 's banned drug list due to its alleged use as a masking agent for other drugs.
Silk is produced from the cocoons of silk moths and end-parts of cocoons, short fibres, etc, are combined to form silk waste and are utilized as filling material for e.g. bed quilts and winter clothes.
Silk threads to be used for the production of fabrics go through several processes that remove allergenic proteins.
The silk waste, however, is less carefully processed and retains allergens of the original sources.
Silk is a well-known occupational allergy in silk-industry workers.
Silk waste from wild silk has become an important indoor inhalant allergen due to its use for filling bed quilts and pillows.
Hyaluronan (also called hyaluronic acid or hyaluronate or HA) is an anionic, nonsulfated glycosaminoglycan distributed widely throughout connective, epithelial, and neural tissues.
It is unique among glycosaminoglycans in that it is nonsulfated, forms in the plasma membrane instead of the Golgi, and can be very large, with its molecular weight often reaching the millions.
One of the chief components of the extracellular matrix, hyaluronan contributes significantly to cell proliferation and migration, and may also be involved in the progression of some malignant tumors.
Hyaluronic acid is also a component of the group A streptococcal extracellular capsule, and is believed to play a role in virulence
Butyrylcarnitine (C4) is elevated in patients with short-chain acyl-CoA dehydrogenase (SCAD) deficiency and isobutyryl-CoA dehydrogenase deficiency.
RED BLOOD CELL sensitivity to change in OSMOTIC PRESSURE.
When exposed to a hypotonic concentration of sodium in a solution, red cells take in more water, swell until the capacity of the cell membrane is exceeded, and burst.
Sulfamethoxazole is a sulfonamide bacteriostatic antibiotic.
It is most often used as part of a synergistic combination with trimethoprim in a 5:1 ratio in co-trimoxazole, which is also known as Bactrim or Septrin.
It can be used as an alternative to amoxicillin -based antibiotics to treat sinusitis.
Mechanism of action:Sulfonamides are structural anologs and competitive antagonists of para-aminobenzoic acid (PABA).
They inhibit normal bacterial utilization of PABA for the synthesis of folic acid, an important metabolite in DNA synthesis.
The effects seen are usually bacteriostatic in nature.
Folic acid is not synthesized in humans, but is instead a dietary requirement.
This allows for the selective toxicity to bacterial cells (or any cell dependent on synthesizing folic acid) over human cells.
The ACAT1 gene (acetyl-CoA acetyltransferase 1) is located on chromosome 11q22.3.
This gene encodes a mitochondrially localized enzyme that catalyzes the reversible formation of acetoacetyl-CoA from two molecules of acetyl-CoA. Defects in this gene are associated with 3-ketothiolase deficiency, an inborn error of isoleucine catabolism characterized by urinary excretion of 2-methyl-3-hydroxybutyric acid, 2-methylacetoacetic acid, tiglylglycine, and butanone.
Trust in science and scientists can greatly influence consideration of scientific developments and activities.
Yet, trust is a nebulous construct based on emotions, knowledge, beliefs, and relationships.
As we explored the literature regarding trust in science and scientists we discovered that no instruments were available to assess the construct, and therefore, we developed one.
Using a process of data collection from science faculty members and undergraduate students, field testing, expert feedback, and an iterative process of design, we developed, validated, and established the reliability of the Trust in Science and Scientist Inventory.
Our 21-item instrument has a reliability of Cronbach's alpha of .86, and we have successfully field-tested it with a range of undergraduate college students
Veterinary Medicine: Brachyspira hyodysenteriae is a loosely coiled, gram-negative, oxygen tolerant, motile, anaerobic spirochete that causes swine dysentery (SD).
SD, a severe mucohemorrhagic diarrheal disease, is usually seen in pigs that weigh between 15 and 70 kilograms, but can also affect adult and suckling pigs.
SD is transmitted when fecal matter containing B. hyodysenteriae is ingested.
When B. hyodysenteriae is grown on blood agar, there is a characteristic complete hemolysis that distinguishes it from other less pathogenic or nonpathogenic spirochetes.
To definitively diagnose an infection with B. hyodysenteriae, the spirochete must be cultured, isolated and identified using biochemical tests or polymerase chain reaction (PCR) testing.
The current treatments for SD includes tylosin, tiamulin and valnemulin.
The CFH gene (complement factor H) is located on chromosome 1q32.
This gene is a member of the Regulator of Complement Activation (RCA) gene cluster and encodes a protein with twenty short consensus repeat (SCR) domains.
This protein is secreted into the bloodstream and has an essential role in the regulation of complement activation, restricting this innate defense mechanism to microbial infections.
Mutations in this gene have been associated with hemolytic-uremic syndrome (HUS) and chronic hypocomplementemic nephropathy.
Alternate transcriptional splice variants, encoding different isoforms, have been characterized.
Somatotropin (growth hormone) is essential for normal growth and development in children and helps regulate metabolism in both children and adults.
The pituitary gland produces and releases GH into the blood in pulses throughout the day.
Because growth hormone is released in pulses, a single measurement of the blood level is not normally clinically useful.
Therefore, testing for the suppression or stimulation of growth hormone release from the pituitary is usually done.
GH stimulation (challenge) tests help to diagnose GH deficiency and hypopituitarism.
For a stimulation test, a sample of blood is drawn after 10-12 hours of fasting.
Then, under close medical supervision, a person is given an intravenous solution of a substance that normally stimulates the release of GH from the pituitary.
Blood samples are then drawn at timed intervals and GH levels are tested in each to see if the pituitary gland was stimulated to produce the expected levels of GH.
The most commonly used challenge is arginine, but others include clonidine and glucagon.
Since exercise normally causes an increase in GH, vigorous exercise may also be used as the stimulant for GH release.
GH suppression tests help to diagnose GH excess.
For a suppression test, a sample of blood is drawn after 10-12 hours of fasting.
A person is then given a standard glucose solution (usually 100 grams of glucose) to drink.
Blood samples are drawn at timed intervals and tested for GH to see if the pituitary gland is sufficiently suppressed by the dose of glucose.
Oxycodone and acetaminophen drug combination (brand names include Endocet, Magnacet, Narvox, Percocet, etc.) is used to relieve moderate to moderately severe pain.
Acetaminophen is used to relieve pain and reduce fever in patients.
It does not become habit-forming when taken for a long time.
But acetaminophen may cause other unwanted effects when taken in large doses, including liver damage.
Oxycodone belongs to the group of medicines called narcotic analgesics (pain medicines).
It acts on the central nervous system (CNS) to relieve pain.
When oxycodone is used for a long time, it may become habit-forming, causing mental or physical dependence.
Severe withdrawal side effects can usually be prevented by gradually reducing the dose over a period of time before treatment is stopped completely.
Diagnostic and prognostic marker for oligodendroglioma.
Patients with 1p and 19q deletions have a better prognosis than those patients that do not have 1p and 19q deletions.
Amylase is found in saliva and breaks starch into maltose and dextrin.
This form of amylase is also called "ptyalin".
A genus of parasitic flagellated protozoans with four anterior flagellae, an undulating membrane, and a trailing flagellum.
The clinically relevant species, Trichomonas vaginalis, causes a sexually transmitted disease that is more commonly symptomatic in females.
Infection with T. vaginalis can increase susceptibility to HIV infection.
There are only 2 species found in humans: Trichomonas vaginalis, a pathogen generally living inside the human urinogenital tract, and Trichomonas tenax, an organism found in the oral cavity of humans, cats, and dogs.
Meropenem is an ultra-broad spectrum antibiotic used to treat a wide variety of infections, including meningitis and pneumonia.
It is a beta-lactam and belongs to the subgroup carbapenem.
Meropenem was developed by Sumitomo Pharmaceuticals.
It is marketed outside Japan by AstraZeneca under the brand names Merrem® and Meronem®.
Unlike imipenem, it is not affected by the renal dehydrogenase and can therefore be given without cilastatin.
It penetrates into the cerebrospinal fluid.
Meropenem is less likely to cause seizures compared to imipenem.
Aldrin is a chlorinated cyclodiene insecticide that was used to control insects living in the soil including termites, corn rootworm, wireworms, rice water weevils, and grasshoppers.
Aldrin was one of the most widely used insecticides in the United States and was used to protect corn, potatoes and wooden structures.
Production of aldrin was halted in 1974 and importation into the United States ended in 1987.
It is banned in many countries and restricted in many others.
Symptoms of toxicity in humans include: headache, dizziness, nausea, malaise, vomiting, muscle twitching, myoclonic jerks and convulsions.
Dichlorodiphenyldichloroethylene (DDE) is the primary metabolite of Dichlorodiphenyltrichloroethane (DDT).
After World War II, DDT was heavily used as an insecticide in agricultural and household settings.
It was a main component of garden sprays, vegetable dusts and applied to carpets to eradicate fleas.
DDT was banned in the United States in 1972, but can still be used in emergency health situations to combat mosquitoes infected with malaria and yellow fever, and by prescription to treat body lice.
DDT and DDE are slow to decompose and remain in the environment for a very long time.
DDT and DDE are rarely detected in groundwater since they are nearly insoluble in water, but adhere tightly to soil particles where they can remain for many years.
DDE is at least as toxic as DDT.
Exposure to DDE is mostly by ingesting contaminated food bought in countries where the use of DDT is still prevalent.
Foods commonly found to be polluted with DDT and DDE include root crops, leafy vegetables, fatty meats, fish, and poultry.
Other sources of DDT and DDE in the environment can be found in contaminated air, dust, and water near waste sites and landfills with high levels of DDT and DDE.
Klebsiella pneumoniae is part of the Enterobacteriaceae family and is a gram-negative, encapsulated and non-motile bacterium.
Humans are the primary carrier of K. pneumonia.
Diagnosis is made through a combination of laboratory analysis, and chest x-ray imaging, for example, lobar infiltrate in the posterior aspect of right upper lung and/or bulging fissure sign.
K. pneumonia is carried in 5-38% and 1-6% of the general population's stool and nasopharynx, respectively.
Up to 77% of hospitalized patients are carriers.
The carbonic anhydrases (or carbonate dehydratases) form a family of enzymes that catalyze the rapid conversion of carbon dioxide and water to bicarbonate and protons, a reaction that occurs rather slowly in the absence of a catalyst.
The active site of most carbonic anhydrases contains a zinc ion; they are therefore classified as metalloenzymes.
One of the functions of the enzyme in animals is to interconvert carbon dioxide and bicarbonate to maintain acid-base balance in blood and other tissues, and to help transport carbon dioxide out of tissues.
Anise (Pimpinella anisum, also anís (stressed on the second syllable) and aniseed) is a flowering plant in the family Apiaceae native to the eastern Mediterranean region and Southwest Asia.
It is known for its flavor, which resembles liquorice, fennel and tarragon.
Atovaquone (alternative spelling: atavaquone, brand name Mepron) is a chemical compound that belongs to the class of naphthalenes.
Atovaquone is a hydroxy-1,4-naphthoquinone, an analog of ubiquinone, with antipneumocystic activity.
It is used to treat or prevent conditions such as pneumocystis pneumonia (PCP), toxoplasmosis, malaria, and babesia.
Evaluation of body systems findings that pertain to nutrition, for example, wasting of muscle and subcutaneous fat, oral health, the ability to swallow, or the patient's appetite.
Pyruvate Kinase deficiency, although rare, is the erythrocyte enzyme deficiency most frequently found to be a cause of congenital nonspherocytic hemolytic anemia.
Patients usually present early in childhood with anemia, icterus, and splenomegaly.
Hemolytic disease of the newborn is common in persons with PK deficiency.
Inorganic sufate is an essential ion in human biology.
Excess sulfate produced by sulphur amino acid oxidation is primarily excreted in the urine.
Sulfate assays are performed in the investigation of nephrolithiasis
Triploidy risk refers to the fetus's risk of being affected by triploid syndrome.
The risk can be determined by prenatal genetic testing of fetal DNA.
Triploid syndrome is caused by the presence of three copies of every chromosome rather than two, for a total of 69 chromosomes rather than the normal 46.
The majority of cases are due to two sperm fertilizing a single egg.
Most fetuses with triploidy are lost due to miscarriage, and the few infants born with triploidy have multiple birth defects and only survive a few months.
Antidepressant and antipsychotic medication selection may be determined based on a patient's genotype for various polymorphisms within the HTR2A and HTR2C genes, which encode the serotonin (5-hydroxytryptamine) receptors HTR2A and HTR2C. Variants in HTR2A, for example c.102T>C and c.-1438G>A, have been found to affect response to selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRI) and risk for adverse drug reactions as well as response to the antipsychotic drugs clozapine and aripiprazole., Patients treated with antipsychotics and having significant weight gain have been positively correlated with a polymorphism in the promoter region of HTR2C, c.759C>T, where those with the -759T variant allele showed significantly less weight gain than those without this allele.
Avian metapneumovirus (aMPV) is a viral pathogen infecting both humans and birds (primarily chickens and turkeys).
Four subtypes of aMPV have been identified - A, B, C and D. Avian metapneumovirus causes an acute respiratory infection and is highly contagious.
The significance of the disease in chickens and turkeys is its impact on chicken and turkey flock populations as it can cause death when a secondary infection is present.
In humans, it can be compared with respiratory syncytial virus (RSV).
When the infection occurs alone, it is less severe than RSV, but when combined with an RSV infection, the manifestation of disease worsens.
RLPs are small particles created when chylomicrons and VLDL are converted by lipoprotein lipase.
RPLs are rich in cholesteryl esters and apo E and depleted of triglycerides, phospholipids and apo C.
An essential nutrient, important during mammalian development.
It is present in milk and in tissues of many animals although it is isolated mostly from ox bile.
It strongly binds to bile acids.
Pappenheimer bodies are abnormal granules of iron found inside red blood cells.
They represent inclusion bodies in phagosomes that have engulfed excessive amounts of iron.
They appear as one or two dense, blue-purple granules within the red blood cell, located in the cell periphery.
They are detected in sideroblastic anemia, hemolytic anemia, and sickle cell disease.
They can interfere with platelet counts when the analysis is performed by electro-optical counters.
The ATP5A1 gene (ATP synthase, H+ transporting, mitochondrial F1 complex, alpha subunit 1, cardiac muscle) is located on chromosome 18q21.
This gene encodes a subunit of mitochondrial ATP synthase.
Mitochondrial ATP synthase catalyzes ATP synthesis, using an electrochemical gradient of protons across the inner membrane during oxidative phosphorylation.
ATP synthase is composed of two linked multi-subunit complexes: the soluble catalytic core, F1, and the membrane-spanning component, Fo, comprising the proton channel.
The catalytic portion of mitochondrial ATP synthase consists of 5 different subunits (alpha, beta, gamma, delta, and epsilon) assembled with a stoichiometry of 3 alpha, 3 beta, and a single representative of the other 3.
The proton channel consists of three main subunits (a, b, c).
This gene encodes the alpha subunit of the catalytic core.
Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding the different isoforms have been identified.
Pseudogenes of this gene are located on chromosomes 9, 2, and 16.
The MBL2 gene (mannose-binding lectin (protein C) 2, soluble) is located on chromosome 10q11.2.
This gene encodes the soluble mannose-binding lectin or mannose-binding protein found in serum.
The protein encoded belongs to the collectin family and is an important element in the innate immune system.
The protein recognizes mannose and N-acetylglucosamine on many microorganisms, and is capable of activating the classical complement pathway.
Deficiencies of this gene have been associated with susceptibility to autoimmune and infectious diseases.
Acrolein (systematic name: propenal) is the simplest unsaturated aldehyde.
It is produced widely but is most often immediately reacted with other products due to its instability and toxicity.
It has a piercing, disagreeable, acrid smell similar to that of burning fat.
Acrolein is a severe pulmonary irritant and lachrymatory agent.
It was used as a chemical weapon during World War I.
It is, however, not outlawed by the Chemical Weapons Convention.
Skin exposure to acrolein causes serious damage.
Acrolein concentrations of 2 ppm are immediately harmful.
Acrolein is not a suspected human carcinogen; no studies have been conducted on the carcinogenic effects of acrolein on humans, but studies on rats have shown an increase in cancerous tumors from ingestion, but not from inhalation.
In October 2006, researchers found connections between acrolein in the smoke from tobacco cigarettes and the risk of lung cancer.
Furthermore, acrolein is a toxic metabolite of cyclophosphamide, a cytotoxic chemotherapy agent, and results in hemorrhagic cystitis
AUDIT:The Alcohol Use Disorders Identification Test Guidelines for Use in PrimaryCare, Second Edition World Health Organization, Department of Mental Health and Substance Dependence
Pincer cells are mushroom-shaped erythrocytes often seen in cases of hereditary spherocytosis and erythroleukemia.
A species of gram-negative bacteria producing air sacculitis and skeletal abnormalities in TURKEYS.
Enterobacteriaceae are a large family of Gram-negative bacteria that include common disease-causing pathogens, such as Citrobacter, Enterobacter, Escherichia coli, Klebsiella, Proteus, Salmonella, Serratia, and Shigella.
Several Enterobacteriaceae strains have become resistant to antibiotics, including carbapenem.
Enzymes such as KPC (Klebsiella pneumoniae carbapenemase) and NDM (New Delhi Metallo-beta-lactamase) break down carbapenems and make them ineffective.
The emergence and spread of antibiotic resistance in Enterobacteriaceae are making it difficult to treat serious nosocomial infections and leading to more species becoming resistant to available agents.
Entecavir (INN) is an oral antiviral drug used in the treatment of hepatitis B infection.
It is marketed under the trade name Baraclude (BMS).
Encephalomyocarditis virus (EMCV) is a small non-enveloped, positive single-strand RNA virus that belongs to the Picornaviridae family.
EMCV is known to have infected voles, squirrels, elephants, swine, wild boar, racoons, antelope, lions, birds, several species of non-human primates and humans.
EMCV is found all around the world.
Mice or rats are believed to be its natural reservoir.
EMCV is transmitted in contaminated food, water and diseased carcasses.
EMCV elicits an extreme inflammatory response that may enhance other virulence factors.
EMCV virulence is linked to sex, age and animal species of the infected host as well as the EMCV viral strain itself.
Symptoms of EMCV infection include myocarditis, diabetes, reproductive and neurological disorders.
Severe symptoms rarely occur in humans infected with EMCV.
Fentanyl (also known as fentanil, brand names Sublimaze, Actiq, Durogesic, Duragesic, and others) is a potent, synthetic opioid analgesic with a rapid onset and short duration of action.
It is a strong agonist at the μ-opioid receptors.
Historically, it has been used to treat breakthrough pain and is commonly used in pre-procedures as a pain reliever as well as an anesthetic in combination with a benzodiazepine.
Fentanyl and its derivatives are used recreationally.
Deaths have resulted from both recreational and improper medical use.
Group of A variant subtypes defined on basis of absorption and elution studies and production or absence of anti-A. There is no A variant Ag; Classic A Ag is present in varying strengths and amounts resulting in variant behavior.
The serotonin release assay (SRA) is a functional test for the detection of heparin-dependent antibodies in heparin-induced thrombocytopenia (HIT).
Patient's serum is added to donor platelets along with varying concentrations of heparin.
Low heparin causes platelet activation in the presence of positive patient antibodies, with inhibition by excess heparin.
Dilute Russell viper venom time (dRVVT) is used most commonly as one of the screening tests to diagnose lupus anticoagulants (LA), which are phospholipid autoantibodies associated with excess clot formation, excess bleeding, and repeated miscarriages.
The coagulant in the venom directly activates factor X, which turns prothrombin into thrombin in the presence of factor V and phospholipid.
If phospholipid antibodies are present, this reaction will be inhibited, which will prolong the dRVVT and suggests the presence of LA.
The ORF5 gene of the porcine reproductive and respiratory virus (PRRS) has been found to be extremely variable, showing polymorphism in both the nucleic acid and amino acid positions of the gene.
This variability has made it a specific target for vaccine development as well as epidemiological investigation.
Studies have shown that the genetic diversity is at least as high in the European genotype as in the North American genotype and the diversity of European type PRRSV has a marked geographical pattern, with exceptionally high genetic diversity in Italian sequences.
Delavirdine is a Nonnucleoside Reverse Transcriptase Inhibitor (Non-NRTI) antiretroviral drug used in the treatment of HIV.
Drug resistance reports assist with treatment decisions.
A verocytotoxin-producing serogroup belonging to the O subfamily of Escherichia coli which has been shown to cause severe food-borne disease.
Recently, a strain from this serogroup, serotype H7 which produces Shiga-like toxins, has been linked to human disease outbreaks resulting from contamination of foods from bovine origin.
This serogroup causes hemorrhagic and HEMOLYTIC-UREMIC SYNDROME and predominantly hemorrhagic diarrhea and GASTROENTERITIS in children.
Receptor tyrosine-protein kinase erbB-3 is an enzyme that in humans is encoded by the ERBB3 gene.
This gene encodes a member of the epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) family of receptor tyrosine kinases.
Amplification of this gene and/or overexpression of its protein have been reported in numerous cancers, including prostate, bladder, and breast tumors.
FShunt is an estimate of the fraction of the venous return that bypasses the pulmonary circulation and/or is not oxygenated during passage through the pulmonary capillaries (pc), that is, the ratio between the shunted cardiac output and the total cardiac output: FShunt = (ctO2 - ctO2)/(ctO2 - ctO2) where = pulmonary capillaries, = arterial blood, = mixed venous blood If no mixed venous sample is measured, FShunt is estimated by assuming the arteriovenous difference to be 2.3 mmol/L.
In the absence of extrapulmonal shunting, FShunt provides information about the intrapulmonary component of hypoxemia.
A high FShunt indicates pathological pulmonary mismatch between ventilation and perfusion, e.g., perfusion of non-ventilated areas (atelectases) and/or increased ventilation-perfusion scatter.
Tobramycin sulfate is an aminoglycoside antibiotic produced by Streptomyces tenebrarius used to treat various bacterial infections, particularly Gram-negative infections.
It works by binding to a site on the bacterial ribosome, causing the genetic code to be misread.
Like all aminoglycosides, tobramycin does not pass the gastro-intestinal tract, so for systemic use it can only be given intravenously or intramuscularly.
This formulation for injection is branded Nebcin®.
Patients with cystic fibrosis will often take an inhalational form (Tobi®) for suppression of Pseudomonas aeruginosa infections.
Tobramycin is also combined with dexamethasone as an ophthalmic solution (TobraDex®).
Bausch Lomb Pharmaceuticals, Inc. makes a sterile Tobramycin Ophthalmic Solution (eye-drops) with a tobramycin concentration of 0.3%.
In the USA it is available by prescription only.
Gonadotropin releasing hormone (GnRH) is a hormone secreted by the hypothalamus in order to stimulate the release of luteinizing hormone (LH), follicle stimulating hormone (FSH) and gonadotropins from the pituitary gland.
GnRH release is crucial to the reproductive cycles of both males and females.
In males, GnRH is instrumental in the production of sperm cells in the testes.
In females, GnRH is necessary for conception and regulation of the menstrual cycle.
To ensure the pituitary is coordinating properly with GnRH, an LH response to GnRH blood test is conducted.
In this test, a shot of GnRH is administered to a patient and the LH level is observed over a specified period of time.
The LH response to GnRH test helps to distinguish between primary and secondary hypogonadism.
Lincomycin is an antibiotic that comes from the bacteria Streptomyces lincolnensis.
It has been structurally modified to its more commonly known 7-chloro-7-deoxy derivative, clindamycin.
Although similar in structure, antibacterial spectrum, and in mechanism of action to macrolides they are also effective against other species as well i.e. actinomycetes, mycoplasma, and some species of Plasmodium.
However, because of its adverse effects and toxicity, it is rarely used today and reserved for patients who are either allergic to penicillin or where bacteria has developed resistance.
Mevalonic acid (MVA) is a key organic compound in biochemistry.
The anion of mevalonic acid, the predominant form in biological media, is known as mevalonate.
Percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI), also known as coronary angioplasty, is a procedure that restores blood flow to the heart.
During the procedure, a thin, flexible guiding catheter is threaded through a blood vessel over a guide wire to the affected artery.
A guiding catheter can hold other devices, such as a balloon or stent.
Once the guiding catheter is in place, a balloon can be inflated to compress the plaque against the artery wal, or a stent, which is a small mesh tube that is used to open and provide support to narrow or weak arteries, can be placed.
Ampicillin is a beta-lactam antibiotic that has been used extensively to treat bacterial infections since 1961, but because of resistance its usage has declined substantially It can sometimes result in allergic reactions that range in severity from a rash (i.e. patients with mononucleosis) to potentially lethal anaphylaxis.
The attachment of platelets to one another.
This clumping together can be induced by a number of agents such as thrombin and collagen and leads to the formation of a thrombus.
Common (Short) ragweed is native to North America, but can also be found in Canada, Japan, Australia and Europe.
It is a prime cause of allergy in the US, and now in Europe, in particular in the upper Rhône valley, the Balkan states and the Krasnodar district of the Russia.
Ragweed, and in particular Short ragweed (A. artemisiifolia), is clinically the most important source of seasonal aeroallergens, as it is responsible for both the majority of cases and the most severe cases of allergic rhinitis.
Ragweed pollen also contributes significantly to exacerbation of asthma and allergic conjunctivitis.
Ragweed pollen has also been implicated in eustachian tube dysfunction in patients with allergic rhinitis and contact dermatitis
Found on activated B- and T-cells Associated with Reed-Sternberg cells and Large cell anaplastic lymphoma
Inhibin A is a dimeric inhibin synthesized and secreted by the ovary granulosa cells, testis Sertoli cells, and placenta.
Increased levels of Inhibin A are seen in women with fetuses affected by Down's syndrome and are measured as part of some second trimester maternal screens.
The addition of inhibin A testing to second trimester screens including AFP and hCG has been shown to significantly improve the rate of detection of Down's syndrome.
Information from New England Journal of Medicine, Vol 334, No 19.
Dimeric Inhibin A As A Marker for Down's Syndrome in Early Pregnancy by Aitken DA, Wallace EM, Crossley JA et al.
The type species of ALPHAVIRUS normally transmitted to birds by CULEX mosquitoes in Egypt, South Africa, India, Malaya, the Philippines, and Australia.
It may be associated with fever in humans.
Serotypes (differing by less than 17% in nucleotide sequence) include Babanki, Kyzylagach, and Ockelbo viruses.
Acarbose is an anti-diabetic drug used to treat type 2 diabetes mellitus and, in some countries, prediabetes.
It is a starch blocker, and inhibits alpha glucosidase, an intestinal enzyme that releases glucose from larger carbohydrates.
Kynurenic acid (KYNA) is a product of the normal metabolism of amino acid L-tryptophan.
It has been shown that kynurenic acid possesses neuroactive activity.
It acts as an antiexcitotoxic and anticonvulsant, most likely through acting as an antagonist at excitatory amino acid receptors.
Because of this activity, it may influence important neurophysiologic and neuropathologic processes.
As a result, kynurenic acid has been considered for use in therapy in certain neurobiological disorders.
Conversely, increased levels of kynurenic acid have also been linked to certain pathological conditions.
High levels of kynurenic acid have been identified in patients suffering from tick-borne encephalitis, schizophrenia and HIV-related illnesses.
In all these situations increased levels were associated with confusion and psychotic symptoms.
Kynurenic acid acts in the brain as a glycine-site NMDAr antagonist, key in glutamatergic neurotransmission system, which is thought to be involved in the pathophysiology and pathogenesis of schizophrenia.
A kynurenic acid hypothesis of schizophrenia has been proposed in 2007, based on its action on midbrain dopamine activity and NMDArs, thus linking dopamine hypothesis of schizophrenia with the glutamate hypothesis of the disease.
High levels of kynurenic acid have been identified in human urine in certain metabolic disorders, such as marked pyridoxine deficiency and deficiency/absence of kynureninase.
Griseofulvin may be given by mouth in the treatment of tinea infections.
L-serine (L-ser) is an amino acid that plays a central role in cellular proliferation and is the major source of one-carbon groups for the de novo synthesis of purine nucleotides and deoxythymidine monophosphate.
L-ser is converted to D-ser by serine racemase.
Altered CNS D-ser levels have been associated with a variety of neurologic conditions, including schizophrenia and Parkinson's disease.
L-ser also plays a specific role in the CNS, and patients with defects of L-ser synthesis have significant neurological impairment.
Two enzyme defects linked to L-ser synthesis have been discovered: 3-phosphoglycerate dehydrogenase (3-PGDH) deficiency and phosphoserine phosphatase (PSP) deficiency.
Patients with 3-PGDH deficiency can have significant neurologic impairment, including congenital microcephaly and seizures associated with decreased white matter volume and myelination, and L-ser supplementation has been used to treat the seizures in this patient population.
PSP deficiency has only been identified in one patient, whose symptoms also improved with L-ser treatment.
CD1 (cluster of differentiation 1) is a family of glycoproteins expressed on the surface of various human antigen-presenting cells.
They are related to the class I MHC molecules, and are involved in the presentation of lipid antigens to T cells.
However their precise function is unknown.
CD1 glycoproteins can be classified primarily into two groups which differ in their lipid anchoring.
CD1a, CD1b and CD1c (group 1 CD1 molecules) are expressed on cells specialized for antigen presentation.
CD1d (group 2 CD1) is expressed in a wider variety of cells.
CD1e is an intermediate form, expressed intracellularly, the role of which is currently unclear.
Scrapie is a fatal, degenerative disease affecting the central nervous system of sheep and goats.
It is in the same class of diseases as BSE in cattle and Chronic Wasting Disease in elk and deer.
Transmission of the classical scrapie agent is not completely understood but apparently healthy sheep infected with the agent can transmit disease.
The infecting agent or prion is a mal-formed version (PrPsc) of a normal protein (PrP) found in all animals.
The malformation of the normal prion proteins occurs when they are exposed to the mal-formed version of the protein.
The normal prion proteins may be more or less susceptible to malformation when they are exposed to the mal-formed protein based on their genetic makeup.
Resistance or susceptibility has been linked to the presence of certain amino acids at various locations within the normal protein.
Genotyping determines the amino acids present at specific locations or codons in the prion protein.
These are reported as a pair of one character amino acid codes such as RR, RH, QQ, etc.
This testing does not diagnosis Scrapie, but is an important tool for selecting genetically resistant animals for breeding and eradication.
Codons associated with susceptibility/resistance to scrapie include codon 112, 136, 141, 154 and 171.
Codon 136 codes for either alanine (A), valine (V) or threonine (T).
The presence of A at codon 136 has been associated with increased resistance to scrapie.
The presence of V at codon 136 has been associated with increased susceptibility to scrapie.
The presence of T at codon 136 has not been associated with scrapie resistance or susceptibility.
Potassium is an important mineral for the body.
Potassium is needed to: build proteins, break down and use carbohydrates, build muscle, maintain normal body growth, control the electrical activity of the heart, and to control acid-base balance.
Many foods contain potassium.
All meats and fish (such as salmon, cod, flounder, and sardines) are good sources.
Soy products and veggie burgers are also good sources of potassium.
Vegetables including broccoli, peas, lima beans, tomatoes, potatoes (especially their skins), sweet potatoes, and winter squash are all good sources of potassium.
Fruits that contain significant amounts of potassium include citrus fruits, cantaloupe, bananas, kiwi, prunes, and apricots.
Milk, yogurt, and nuts are also excellent sources of potassium.
People with kidney problems, especially those on dialysis, should not eat too many potassium-rich foods.
Lysoganglioside GM1 antibodies bind to Lysoganglioside GM1, a cell-surface molecule found most prolifically on neuronal cells.
Lysoganglioside GM1 has been hypothesized as a possible target of the autoimmune response to group A beta hemolytic strep leading to PANDAS (pediatric autoimmune neuropsychiatric disorder).
Cefadroxil is a broad-spectrum antibiotic effective in Gram positive and Gram negative bacterial infections.
Homogenous (diffuse) ANA pattern suggests SLE or other connective tissue diseases.
Alpha (A) glucosidase is an enzyme found in tissue fibroblasts that is useful for delineatig the reason for muscle wasting and ruling out Pompe's disease.
The PCDH15 gene (protocadherin-related 15) is located on chromosome 10q21.1.
This gene is a member of the cadherin superfamily.
Family members encode integral membrane proteins that mediate calcium-dependent cell-cell adhesion.
It plays an essential role in maintenance of normal retinal and cochlear function.
Mutations in this gene result in hearing loss and Usher Syndrome Type IF (USH1F).
Extensive alternative splicing resulting in multiple isoforms has been observed in the mouse ortholog.
Similar alternatively spliced transcripts are inferred to occur in human, and additional variants are likely to occur.
7-Hydroxymitragynine (mitragynine hydroxyindolenine), a terpenoid indole alkaloid in the plant Mitragyna speciosa, is a derivative of Mitragynine (also called Kratom).
It has opioid agonistic activity and more potent than Mitrgyna or morphine.
7-Hydroxymitragynine is orally active in animals as an analgesic, and produces normal opioid side effects including constipation, (though significantly less than morphine), and the development of tolerance and withdrawal syndrome upon abstinence
A colorless, flammable liquid used in the manufacture of acetic acid, perfumes, and flavors.
It is also an intermediate in the metabolism of alcohol.
It has a general narcotic action and also causes irritation of mucous membranes.
Large doses may cause death from respiratory paralysis.
Borrelia afzelii, B borgdorferi, and B garinii are spirochetes and known etiological agents of Lyme borreliosis (Lyme disease).
B garinii and B afzelii are more prevalent in Europe and regions of Asia, whereas B borgdorferi is the primary agent causing in Lyme disease in North America.
Travelers or residents of these regions who are bitten by ticks are at increased risk for Lyme disease caused by a Borrelia species.
The bacteria are transmitted to humans by the bite of infected ticks of the Ixodes genus.
Many patients will develop a red rash (erythema migrans) at the site of the tick bite.
Other symptoms include fever, headache, feeling tired, facial nerve paralysis, joint pains, and meningitis.
Symptoms can occur within a few days to a month or more after the bite.
Antibiotics commonly used for oral treatment of Lyme disease include doxycycline, amoxicillin, or cefuroxime axetil.
Testolactone, or Teslac (brand name) is an antineoplastic agent that is a derivative of progesterone and is used to treat advanced stage breast cancer.
Listeria monocytogenes is a facultative anaerobic bacterium that has the ability to live intracellularly.
It is ubiquitous in the environment, an important foodborne pathogen, and of concern to the food industry especially unpasteurized dairy.
L. monocytogenes most commonly infects immunocompromised persons, the elderly and pregnant women.
In the case of pregnant women, the fetal mortality rate has been reported as high as 45%, and in immunocompromised patients, can lead to meningitis, CNS infection or severe bacteremia.
Periostin, also known as osteoblast-specific factor 2 (OSF-2), is a protein encoded by the POSTN gene.
Periostin functions as a ligand to support adhesion and migration of epithelial cells.
It is expressed in collagen-rich fibrous connective tissues and is involved in osteoblast recruitment, attachment and spreading.
Periostin is involved in tissue repair, cancers, cardiovascular and respiratory diseases, and in various inflammatory conditions.
Toxocaridae is a zoonotic family of parasitic nematodes that infect canids and felids and which cause toxocariasis in humans (visceral larva migrans and ocular larva migrans).
The worms are unable to reproduce in humans.
Three important species include: - Toxocara canis, which infects dogs, - Toxocara cati, which infects cats and which lacks intermediate hosts, - Toxocara vitulorum, which infects buffalo and cattle.
Tripeptidyl peptidase 1 is an enzyme that sequentially removes tripeptides from the N termini of proteins.
It is encoded by the TPP1 gene, located on chromosome 11p15.4.
Mutations in TPP1 cause abnormal protein folding, which results in defective enzyme activity and a disorder known as neuronal ceroid lipofuscinosis-2 (CLN2), or Jansky-Bielschowsky disease.
CLN2 is a progressive neurodegenerative disorder characterized by dementia, seizures, and visual failure.
Tungsten, also known as wolfram, is a hard, rare metal found in rocks and minerals and in numerous applications, including incandescent light bulb filaments, X-ray tubes, welding elctrodes, and golf clubs.
It is also used in the military for armor-piercing munitions.
Tungsten is released to the atmosphere by various mechanisms, including windblown dusts and during ore processing, tungsten alloy (hard-metal) fabrication, tungsten carbide production and use, and municipal waste combustion.
Individuals who work in manufacturing, fabricating, and reclaiming industries may be exposed to higher levels of tungsten or tungsten compounds compared to the general population.
Conditions such as pulmonary fibrosis, memory and sensory deficits, and increased mortality due to lung cancer have been attributed to occupational exposure to hard metals, including tungsten.
Clefted (fissured) lymphs are usually associated with CLL.
This white blood cell is found in the bloodstream of a patient with malignant lymphoma.
The nucleus is a bit large for a normal lymphocyte, without a corresponding increase in cytoplasmic size as you'd expect in a reactive lymphocyte.
The groove in the nucleus corresponds to a stage in lymphocyte development in germinal centers.
One should not see these cells in the circulation.
α-Ketoadipic acid (or 2-oxoadipate) is an intermediate in the metabolism of lysine.
Forced vital capacity (FVC) is the volume of air that can forcibly be blown out after full inspiration, measured in liters.
FVC is the most basic maneuver in spirometry tests.
Transferrin is a serum protein that delivers iron to cells.
It is typically linked to varying numbers of sialic acid, a monosaccharide carbohydrate.
The most common form is tetrasialotransferrin, with four sialic acid residues.
Patients with congenital disorders of glycosylation (CDG) typically have a relative increase in disialotransferrin and a relative decrease in longer sialotransferrins.
Measuring the relative amounts of each type of sialotransferrin can aid in the diagnosis of CDG.
Canine parvovirus (CPV) is a contagious virus affecting dogs.
The disease is highly infectious and is spread from dog to dog by physical contact and contact with feces.
DOG1 is a protein found to be selectively expressed in Gastrointestinal stromal tumors (GIST).
While the immunohistochemical expression of CD117 plays a vital role in the diagnosis and treatment of GISTs, DOG-1 has shown to stain 13% more GISTs than CD117 and thus renders it a more sensitive and specific marker than CD117.
Lactose challenge test is used to detect lactose intolerance.
In one version of the test, breath samples were collected just before the challenge and then every 30 minutes for 3 hours.
The samples were analyzed for their hydrogen content, and were considered positive for lactose intolerance if the hydrogen level rose from baseline by more than 20 parts per million in any sample.
For this study, a positive breath test result was the definitive diagnosis of lactose intolerance.
Zoler M. Adult Lactose Intolerance Is Still Hard to Diagnose - Brief Article - Statistical Data Included.
Family Pratice News June 1, 2000.
Dengue is caused by any one of four distinct but closely related dengue virus (DENV) serotypes (DENV-1, -2, -3, and -4), which are single-stranded RNA viruses in family Flaviviridae, genus Flavivirus.
This family includes other important vector-borne viruses (e.g., West Nile virus, Yellow Fever virus, Japanese Encephalitis virus, St. Louis Encephalitis virus, etc.).
Dengue viruses are arboviruses (arthropod-borne virus) transmitted primarily to humans through an infected Aedes species mosquito bite.
Transmission may also occur through transfusion of infected blood or transplantation of infected organs or tissues or after occupational exposure in healthcare settings.
All four dengue serotypes can produce the full spectrum of illness and severity.
The spectrum of illness can range from a mild febrile syndrome to classic dengue fever (DF), to the severe forms of the disease, dengue hemorrhagic fever (DHF) and dengue shock syndrome (DSS).
Diagnosis can include serology, antigen detection or molecular testing.
PCR assays have been devloped that target various areas of the genome including genes for non-structured proteins, the capsid protein, or the 3' or 5' untranslated regions.
Ombitasvir (ABT-267) is a hepatitis C virus (HCV) NS5A inhibiting antiviral drug for the treatment of HCV infection..
United States FDA approved ombitasvir-paritaprevir-ritonavir and dasabuvir for the treatment of genotype 1 chronic hepatitis C infection in adults, including patients with compensated cirrhosis.
Spanish moss (Tillandsia usneoides) is a flowering plant that grows upon larger trees, commonly the Southern Live Oak (Quercus virginiana) or Bald Cypress (Taxodium distichum) in the southeastern United States.
Escherichia coli O157 is an enterohemorrhagic strain of the bacterium Escherichia coli and an emerging cause of foodborne illness.
An estimated 73,000 cases of infection and 61 deaths occur each year in the United States alone, although it is rarer in less industrialized countries.
Infection often leads to bloody diarrhea, and occasionally to kidney failure.
Most illness has been associated with eating undercooked, contaminated ground beef, although it is also transmitted by person-to-person contact, produce, drinking unpasteurized milk or swimming in or drinking contaminated water.
The 2006 United States E. coli outbreak was linked to a large quantity of spinach contaminated with this strain.
The C10orf2 gene (chromosome 10 open reading frame 2) is located on chromosome 10q24.
This gene encodes a hexameric DNA helicase which unwinds short stretches of double-stranded DNA in the 5' to 3' direction and, along with mitochondrial single-stranded DNA binding protein and mtDNA polymerase gamma, is thought to play a key role in mtDNA replication.
The protein localizes to the mitochondrial matrix and mitochondrial nucleoids.
Mutations in this gene cause infantile onset spinocerebellar ataxia (IOSCA) and progressive external ophthalmoplegia (PEO) and are also associated with several mitochondrial depletion syndromes.
Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms.
Cathine, also known as d-norpseudoephedrine, is a psychoactive drug of the phenethylamine and amphetamine chemical classes which acts as a stimulant.
Along with cathinone, it is found naturally in Catha edulis (khat), and contributes to its overall effects.
The nanA gene is common across all strains of Streptococcus pneumoniae and encodes a sialidase protein (also known as neuraminidase) that plays an important role in the virulence of this pathogen.
Because the nanA gene is conserved across all strains, its presence in clinical specimens can be used to identify Streptococcus pneumoniae as one of the pathogens responsible for a specific infection.
Infliximab is a genetically engineered immunoglobulin 1 murine-human chimeric monoclonal antibody against tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNFα).
The murine portion is the part of the antibody that binds to TNFα while the human portion preserves functional immune capacity.
Infliximab is used to treat Crohn's disease and, in particular, in treating the closure of intestinal or perianal fistulas in patients with acute intestinal involvement who have been unresponsive to other treatments.
TNFα is a cytokine that acts to increase the inflammatory process in CD, RA, psoriasis and spondylarthropathy.
The primary mechanism of infliximab is to combine with the inactivate soluble transmembrane TNFα.
However, infliximab also modulates TNFα-producing cells through complement fixation of antibody-dependent T lymphocytes and monocytes by binding them to the IgG1 fc portion of infliximab.
There is also a subsequent down-regulation of other inflammation-producing cytokines and a reduction of the level of chemokines and endothelial adhesion molecules.
Negative side effects of infliximab include fibrostenosing CD and sepsis.
HPV type 56 has been associated with low grade cervical abnormalities, cancer precursors, and anogenital cancers.
The endomysium is a connective collagenous tissue that surrounds muscle fibers.
The endomysium's myofibers overlap and allow muscle tension to transfer from one muscle to the next.
Cabbage originated in the Mediterranean and Adriatic regions as a loose-leafed wild plant.
Hard-headed Cabbages were developed in 16th century.
The main growing areas are West Europe and the Baltic countries, the ex-USSR, China, Japan and America.
Cabbage can occasionally induce symptoms of food allergy in sensitised individuals.
Proteins of these vegetables may cause immediate-type allergy, the pollens may be involved in hay fever, and skin contact with the isothiocyanates released may cause contact dermatitis.
Neuronal nuclear type 3 Ab (ANNA-3) is one of three neuronal nuclear paraneoplastic antibodies that primarily binds to the nuclei of cerebellar Purkinje neurons and to renal glomerular podocytes.
Symptoms of the presence of ANNA-3 include sensory or sensorimotor neuropathies, cerebellar ataxia, myelopathy, brain stem and limbic encephalopathy.
It's presence in serum is most commonly indicative of a small-cell malignant tumor, most of which are primary tumors of the lung.
Fluorescent staining patterns are used to distinguish ANNA-3 from the other two neuronal nuclear types, ANNA-1 and ANNA-2.
ANNA-3 binds the nuclei of Purkinje neurons in the cerebellar cortex more than the molecular neurons, and does not bind granular neurons.
ANNA-3 binds only the nuclei of indentate neurons, while ANNA-1 and ANNA-2 bind both the nuclei and cytoplasm of all neurons.
ANNA-3 binds the nuclei of glomuerular podocytes in of the renal cortex in 10 of 11 sera.
For the same cell type, ANNA-2 binds both the nuclei and cytoplasm in 8 of 32 sera, and ANNA-1 does not bind the podocytes at all.
Lopinavir (ABT-378) is an antiretroviral of the protease inhibitor class.
It is used as a fixed-dose combination with another protease inhibitor, ritonavir, under the trade names Kaletra and Aluvia.
Anabasine is a pyridine alkaloid found in the Tree Tobacco (Nicotiana glauca) plant, a close relative of the common tobacco plant (Nicotiana tabacum).
Chemically, it is similar to nicotine and its principal (historical) industrial use is as an insecticide.
Anabasine is present in trace amounts in tobacco smoke, and can be used as an indicator of a person's exposure to tobacco smoke.
Veterinary Medicine: The causes for abortions in swine are separated into two categories: primary infections of the reproductive tract that result in 30-40% of abortions, mummies and stillbirths; the second category includes toxins, environmental and nutritional stresses, and systemic disease in the sow which account for the remaining 60-70% of aborted fetuses.
To determine the cause of death, fetal serum or thoracic fluid immunoglobulin levels are measured.
Swine fetuses become immunocompetent after 70 days of gestation.
Healthy fetal pigs are born without immunoglobulins and immunoglobulins from the sow do not cross the placenta.
So, any immunoglobulins found in the deceased pig is an indication that an infectious agent most likely caused its demise, rather than an environmental or non-infectious cause.
Hetacillin is a beta-lactam.
Hetacillin is a prodrug and it has no intrinsic antibacterial activity, but is converted by the body to ampicillin, which is active against a variety of organisms.
The human leukocyte antigen B (HLA-B;) plays an important role in how the immune system recognizes and responds to pathogens.
HLA-B belongs to a class of molecules that are found on the surface of most cells.
These molecules are responsible for presenting peptides to immune cells.
Peptides derived from normal human proteins are recognized as such, whereas foreign peptides derived from pathogens trigger an immune response.
Allopurinol specifically interacts with HLA-B*58:01 and alters the repertoire of self-peptides that are presented to T lymphocytes, which activates an immune reaction known as severe cutaneous adverse reactions (SCAR), including drug hypersensitivity syndrome, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, and toxic epidermal necrolysis.
Lipopolysaccharide binding proteins (LBP) are encoded by the LBP gene and involved in the acute-phase immunologic response to gram negative bacterial infections.
LBP mediates the binding of lipopolysaccharides (LPS) to the CD14 receptor, triggering a pro-inflammatory response of macrophages, which is thought to be crucial for keeping infections under control.
Elevated LBP serum concentrations therefore is a potential marker for early diagnosis of an invasive bacterial infection.
Quinoa (pronounced "keen-wa") has been cultivated in the Andean highlands since 3,000 BC.
Its small, very nutritious seeds resemble millet and are very versatile in cooking.
Quinoa may rarely induce symptoms of food allergy in sensitised individuals.
A trace element that is required in bone formation.
It has the atomic symbol Sn, atomic number 50, and atomic weight 118.71.
The INS gene encodes the preproinsulin precursor of insulin.
Diseases associated with alterations of the INS gene include insulin autoimmune syndrome, insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus type 2 (IDDM2), neonatal diabetes mellitus (NDM), and maturity-onset diabetes of the young, type 10 (MODY 10).
O-Ethyl O-(p-nitrophenyl) phenylphosphonothionate (EPN) is an organothiophosphorus cholinesterase inhibitor.
It is a light yellow crystalline powder used as an acaricide and an insecticide on cotton.
It is toxic when it comes in contact with the skin, is ingested, comes in contact with the eyes, or if its aerosols are inhaled.
When EPN is heated, it produces toxic fumes of sulfur oxides, phosphorus oxides, nitrogen oxides and phosphine.
Symptoms of excessive exposure include miosis, lacrimation, rhinorrhea, headache, tight chest, wheezing and laryngeal spasm, salivation, cyanosis, anorexia, nausea, abdominal cramps and diarrhea, paralysis, convulsions, low blood pressure, cardiac irregularities, and irritation of the skin and the eyes.
Chronic exposure to EPN may be asymptomatic but can become increasingly dangerous.
EPN is not classified as a human carcinogen.
It is extremely toxic to aquatic wildlife and bioaccumulates in fish.
Heat-labile enterotoxins are proteins produced by strains of Escherichi coli (EC), Vibrio cholerae (VC), and Clostridium perfringens (CP) that cause diarrhea.
EC and VC enterotoxins consist of five B subunits and one A subunit.
The B subunits bind to a ganglioside receptor on the membranes of the intestinal epithelial cells.
After binding to the intestinal epithelium, subunit A is transferred to the epithelial cytoplasm where it becomes activated.
Once activated, subunit A causes a series of reactions that lead to the secretion of large quantities of ions and fluid to be secreted from the cell, resulting in diarrhea.
A cholinesterase inhibitor used in the treatment of myasthenia gravis and to reverse the effects of muscle relaxants such as gallamine and tubocurarine.
Neostigmine, unlike PHYSOSTIGMINE, does not cross the blood-brain barrier.
Arrhenatherum elatius is a species of grass, common in the temperate regions of Europe, which is often used as an ornamental plant.
Its common names include false oat-grass, tall oat-grass, tall meadow oat, onion couch and tuber oat-grass.
It is native to Europe but can be found elsewhere as an introduced species.
It is found especially in prairies, at the side of roads and in uncultivated fields.
The bulbous variety can be a weed of arable land.
It is palatable grass for livestock and is used both as forage (pasture) and fodder (hay and silage); it has high amounts of phosphorus and calcium in its tissues.
Polyunsaturated fatty acids (PUFA) are those that contain more than one double bond.
Streptococcus pyogenes is an important cause of pharyngitis as well as more severe infections, including sepsis and toxic shock syndrome.
The csrS gene is associated with S pyogenes virulence, and therefore, its presence in clinical specimens can be used to identify this organism as one of the pathogens responsible for a specific infection.
Cryptosporidium hominis, along with Cryptosporidium parvum, is among the medically important Cryptosporidium species.
It is an obligate parasite of humans that can colonize the gastrointestinal tract resulting in the gastroenteritis and diarrhea characteristic of cryptosporidiosis.
Unlike C. parvum, which has a rather broad host range, C. hominis is almost exclusively a parasite of humans.
As a result, C. hominis has a low zoonotic potential compared to C. parvum.
It is spread through the fecal-oral route usually by drinking water contaminated with oocyst laden feces
The Persimmon tree is native to China and Japan, where it has been cultivated for centuries.
It was introduced to Europe and California (where it has become D. virginiana or American persimmon) in the mid-19th century.
It is commercially grown in Italy, Spain and the south of France, where it is known as Kaki, but it is still most common in the Far East.
Anecdotal evidence suggests that Persimmon can occasionally induce symptoms of food allergy in sensitised individuals; however, few studies have been reported to date.
2,5-Dimethoxy-4-bromoamphetamine (DOB), also known as Brolamfetamine and Bromo-DMA, is a psychedelic drug and substituted amphetamine of the phenethylamine class of compounds.
DOB is generally taken orally and toxicity is not fully known, although high doses may cause serious vasoconstriction of the extremities.
Isoleucine is an essential nonpolar hydrophobic amino acid.
It is increased with Hartnup Disease and Maple Syrup Urine Disease (MSUD).
(Information from ARUP Laboratories 9/14/06)
Ethylmorphine (also known as ethyl morphine) is a drug in the class of both opiates (representing a minor synthetic change from morphine) and opioids (being effective in the CNS's opioid reception system).
Its effects in humans mainly stem from its metabolic conversion to morphine.
Chemically, it is a morphine molecule with a -O C 2 H 5 group substituted for one of its -OH groups.
The major progestational steroid secreted primarily by the corpus luteum and the placenta.
Progesterone acts on the uterus, the mammary glands, and the brain.
It is required in embryo implantation,pregnancy, and the development of mammary tissue for milk production.
Progesterone, converted from pregnenolone, also serves as an intermediate in the biosynthesis of gonadal steroid hormones and adrenal corticosteroids.
The date and time the patient was discharged from a designated observation unit operated by the Emergency Department (ED) for evaluation and management.
A species of the Beta genus.
Cultivars are used as a source of beets (root) or chard (leaves).
Found on most leukocytes.
More highly expressed on memory cells than naive cells
Suberylcarnitine (C8-DC) is an acylcarnitine that may be included in testing (e.g. newborn screening panel) for medium chain acyl-CoA dehydrogenase deficiency and other fatty acid oxidation disorders.
Extended-spectrum beta-lactamases (ESBL) are enzymes produced by some gram negative bacilli that confer resistance to the majority of beta-lactam antibiotics, include the penicillins, cephalosporins and the monobactam aztreonam.
ESBLs are most often plasmid-borne.
Specific ESBLs include TEM, SHV, and the CTX-M groups, which are the most clinically prevalent, and VEB, PER, BEL, and GES, which are less common.
-TEM and SHV subtypes are derived from amino acid substitutions, resulting in enzymatic hydrolysis of many beta-lactam antibiotics.
-CTX-M genes originate from Kluyvera species.
They are separated based on their amino acid sequences into the following groups: CTX-M-1, CTX-M-2, CTX-M-9, CTX-M-8, and CTX-M-25.
-VEB, PER, BEL, and GES genes are less common.
The nomenclature for ESBL genes includes the prefix "bla", which stands for "beta-lactam", followed by the enzyme (ie. blaTEM).
Gangliosides are a family of molecules that are present throughout the body but especially prevalent in cells of the nervous system.
Specific gangliosides are named for the carbohydrate sequence they contain and have a unique distribution within the nervous system.
The oligosaccharide groups on gangliosides act as cell surface markers that play a role in cellular recognition and cell-to-cell communication, and they also act as specific receptors for certain pituitary glycoprotein hormones and certain bacterial protein toxins such as cholera toxin.
Anti-ganglioside antibodies, primarily IgG, are present in the sera from approximately 60% of patients with Guillain-Barré syndrome (GBS), and antibodies against different gangliosides are associated with different forms of GBS.
1. Antibodies against GD1a/GD1b and GD1b/GT1b complexes have been found in patients with more severe GBS requiring mechanical ventilation; 2. Antibodies against GM1 or those against GalNAc-GD1a have been associated with acute motor axonal neuropathy; 3. Anti-GQ1b antibodies are specifically associated with a variant of GBS called Fisher syndrome, which is characterized by ophthalmoplegia and ataxia.
Detection of specific markers early in the course of GBS may help guide the plan of care.
An enzyme of the urea cycle that catalyzes the formation of argininosuccinic acid from citrulline and aspartic acid in the presence of ATP.
Absence or deficiency of this enzyme causes the metabolic disease CITRULLINEMIA in humans. .
Tricyclic anorexigenic agent unrelated to and less toxic than AMPHETAMINE, but with some similar side effects.
It inhibits uptake of catecholamines and blocks the binding of cocaine to the dopamine uptake transporter.
A cold agglutinin is an autoimmune disease in which the body produces antibodies against red blood cells, causing the cells to agglutinate (clump together).
These antibodies are usually IgM.
The primary form of cold agglutinin disease is idiopathic.
In other cases, the disease is a result of an underlying condition.
Cold aggulitinin disease is known to occur in adults with a lymphoproliferative disease, such as lymphoma and chronic lymphoid leukemia, and in children with infections such as Mycoplasma pneumonia, mononucleosis, and HIV.
Cold agglutinins affect many blood tests, such as red blood cell count, and by default, the mean corpuscular hemoglobin and mean corpuscular volume.
If these indices are very high, a technologist should suspect a cold agglutinin.
The REMS Release term is related to the release of the REMS requirement for a drug or biologic product.
Vanillic acid (4-hydroxy-3-methoxybenzoic acid) is a benzoic acid derivative used as a flavoring agent.
It is an oxidized form of vanillin.
It is also an intermediate in the production of vanillin from ferulic acid.
The highest amount of Vanillic acid in plants known so far is found in the root of Angelica sinensis, a herb indigenous to China, which is traditionally used in Traditional Chinese medicine.
Heinz bodies indicate a metabolic abnormality in the primary structure of hemoglobin.
They are found in hemolytic anemias.
Three major causes are: exposure to certain drugs, deficiency in reducing systems of blood and presence of unstable Hgb.
Liquidambar styraciflua (American Sweetgum, Redgum) is a deciduous tree in the genus Liquidambar native to North Eastern and Central America.
The Q192R (rs662; A/G) polymorphism in the PON1 gene results in a glutamine to arginine substitution at position 192.
This variant been linked to increased atherosclerosis risk, including coronary artery disease (CAD), in several individuals.
The paraoxonase-1 (PON1) enzyme is a HDL-bound antioxidant enzyme that protects LDL from oxidative modification.
Ganglioside is a molecule composed of a glycosphingolipid (ceramide and oligosaccharide) with one or more sialic acids (AKA n-acetylneuraminic acid, NANA) linked on the sugar chain.
The 60+ known gangliosides differ mainly in the position and number of NANA residues.
It is a component of the cell plasma membrane that modulates cell signal transduction events.
It appears that they concentrate in lipid rafts.
They have recently been found to be highly important in immunology.
Natural and semisynthetic gangliosides are considered possible therapeutics for neurodegenerative disorders.
Gangliosides are more complex glycosphingolipids in which oligosaccharide chains containing N-acetylneuraminic acid (NeuNAc) are attached to a ceramide.
NeuNAc, an acetylated derivative of the carbohydrate sialic acid, makes the head groups of Gangliosides anionic.
NB: the M in GM2 stands for monosialo, i.e., one NeuNAc residue.
GM2 is the second monosialo ganglioside characterized, thus the subscript 2.
Their structural diversity results from variation in the composition and sequence of the sugar residues.
In all Gangliosides, the ceramide is linked through its C-1 to a β-glucosyl residue, which, in turn, is bound to a β-galactosyl residue.
Beta tubulin is an intercellular protein that provides structure and supports cell division.
Clofazimine is a fat-soluble riminophenazine dye used for the treatment of leprosy.
It has been used investigationally in combination with other antimycobacterial drugs to treat Mycobacterium avium infections in AIDS patients.
Clofazimine also has a marked anti-inflammatory effect and is given to control the leprosy reaction, erythema nodosum leprosum.
(From AMA Drug Evaluations Annual, 1993, p1619).
Macrometastases are metastatic deposits that are greater than 2 mm in diameter.
Cytochrome P450 3A4 (abbreviated CYP3A4) is part of a cluster of cytochrome P450 genes on chromosome 7q21.1.
Over 30 single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) have been identified in this gene, most of which are not clinically significant.
Few have been found to decrease catalytic activity with certain ligands, including testosterone and nifedipine, in comparison to wild-type metabolism.
Examples of these alleles and associated SNPs include CYP3A4*6 (an A17776 insertion), CYP3A4*17 (15615T>C) and CYP3A4*22 (15389C>T).
Alanine aminopeptidase is an enzyme that is used as a biomarker to detect damage to the kidneys, and that may be used to help diagnose certain kidney disorders.
It is found at high levels in the urine when there are kidney problems.
The NPC1 gene is located on chromosome 18q11.2 and encodes Niemann-Pick C1 protein, which is involved in intracellular cholesterol transport.
NPC1 mutations cause Niemann-Pick disease type C1 and type D, which are clinically indistinguishable and have both childhood and adult-onset forms.
The childhood form is associated with progressive neurodegeneration, seizures, and spasticity beginning between ages 2 and 4, with death by age 15.
The adult-onset form has a more subtle onset and slower progression.
Tryptophan is an amino acid and essential in human nutrition.
It is one of the 20 amino acids in the genetic code (codon UGG).
Only the L-stereoisomer appears in mammalian protein, however the D-stereoisomer is occasionally found in natural materials (for example, the marine venom peptide contryphan).
Catalyzes the decarboxylation of orotidylic acid to yield uridylic acid in the final step of the pyrimidine nucleotide biosynthesis pathway. .
The genetic counselor's comment regarding risk of a specific disorder or group of disorders is used to convey follow-up recommendations or other information related to the risk result and interpretation.
Zidovudine is a Nucleoside Reverse Transcriptase Inhibitor(NRTI) antiretroviral drug used in the treatment of HIV.
Drug resistance reports assist with treatment decisions.
Hyocholic acid is a bile acid.
Bile acids are steroid acids found predominantly in bile of mammals.
The distinction between different bile acids is minute, depends only on presence or absence of hydroxyl groups on positions 3, 7, and 12.
Bile acids are physiological detergents that facilitate excretion, absorption, and transport of fats and sterols in the intestine and liver.
Bile acids are also steroidal amphipathic molecules derived from the catabolism of cholesterol.
They modulate bile flow and lipid secretion, are essential for the absorption of dietary fats and vitamins, and have been implicated in the regulation of all the key enzymes involved in cholesterol homeostasis.
Bile acids recirculate through the liver, bile ducts, small intestine and portal vein to form an enterohepatic circuit.
They exist as anions at physiological pH and, consequently, require a carrier for transport across the membranes of the enterohepatic tissues.
The unique detergent properties of bile acids are essential for the digestion and intestinal absorption of hydrophobic nutrients.
Bile acids have potent toxic properties (e.g., membrane disruption) and there are a plethora of mechanisms to limit their accumulation in blood and tissues.,,,
A piperidine botanical insecticide.
The CYP1A2 gene variant -3860G>A is inherited in an autosomal recessive fashion and associated with lower inducibility in Asians but increased inducibility in Northern Europeans.
Individuals who are homozygous or compound heterozygous for polymorphisms in the CYP1A2 gene are poor metabolizers.
Patients who are heterozygous, having 1 normal gene and 1 defective variant, will have metabolism intermediate between the extensive (normal) and poor metabolizers.
The Respiratory Severity Score (RSS) is calculated by multiplying the FiO2 times the MAP (mean airway pressure).
The RSS is a modification of the oxygenation index (OI), calculated according to the following formula: OI= Mean Airway Pressure (M) Fraction of inspired oxygen (FiO2)/Partial pressure of arterial oxyg (PaO2).
In contrast to the OI, the RSS does not require PaO2 values (via an indwelling arterial catheter) and thus is a simpler measure of lung disease severity.
An element of the rare earth family of metals.
It has the atomic symbol Sc, atomic number 21, and atomic weight 45.
The coronary artery segmentation model published in 1975 by the American Heart Association (AHA) divides the coronary arteries into 15 segments for the purposes of evaluating and treating coronary artery disease.
The diseased area(s) (also called "lesion") can be described in terms of the specific coronary segments where each lesion starts and ends.
This model is still used as of 2015, with modifications by different disciplines.
The 15 AHA segments are defined as follows: 1) proximal right coronary artery; 2) mid right coronary artery; 3) distal right coronary artery; 4) posterior descending branch of right coronary artery; 5) left main coronary artery; 6) proximal left anterior descending artery; 7) mid left anterior descending artery; 8) distal left anterior descending artery; 9) first diagonal branch; 10) second diagonal branch; 11) proximal left circumflex artery; 12) obtuse marginal artery; 13) mid distal left circumflex; 14) posterolateral branch of left circumflex artery; and 15) posterior descending branch of left circumflex artery.
The 16 segment model is a modified version of the 15-segment AHA model and adds the intermediate branch artery (ramus intermedius), which originates from the left main coronary artery between the left anterior descending and left circumflex in cases of trifurcation, as segment 16.
An individual patient may not have the exact coronary segments described by this model and may have missing and/or additional segments, which can be evaluated by procedures such as angiography.
Depending on the context, the AHA segments may be further subdivided in order to provide finer anatomic granularity.
The MEFV gene (Mediterranean fever) is located on chromosome 16p13.3.
This gene encodes a protein, also known as pyrin or marenostrin, that is an important modulator of innate immunity.
Mutations in this gene are associated with Mediterranean fever, a hereditary periodic fever syndrome.
11-Ketoetiocholanolone is an endogenous anabolic androgenic steroid.
The concentration ratio of 11-hydroxyetiocholanolone/11-hydroxyandrosterone is increased in patients with uterine leiomyomas, and it appears to be caused by a decrease in patients' metabolite of steroids.
The concentration of 11-Ketoetiocholanolone is significantly higher in these patients.
There is a relationship between urinary endogenous steroid metabolites and lower urinary tract function related to the residual vol.
in uroflowmetry in postmenopausal women., ,
Fluconazole is a triazole antifungal drug used in the treatment and prevention of superficial and systemic fungal infections.
It is commonly marketed under the trade name Diflucan.
Transient ischemic dilation (TID) of the left ventricle (LV) is the phenomenon whereby the LV undergoes transient enlargement of the cavity and thinning of the walls as evidenced by cardiac imaging.
TID is associated with severe coronary artery disease and ST depression on EKG.
The exact mechanism of TID is not known, but it may be related more to the dilatory effect of diffuse subendocardial ischemia compared to the effect of increased end-diastolic pressure.
Different strains of Leptospira have different degrees of virulence.
L. interrogans serovar Copenhageni frequently results in life-threatening infections that are associated with jaundice, kidney injury and hemorrhage.
The host of the Copenhageni serovar is Rattus norvegicus, which is also the host of other strains of Leptospira that are less virulent.
The majority of human leptospirosis infections in Brazil are due to L. interrogans serovar Copenhageni.
Cancer antigen 19-9 testing is useful to monitor the response to treatment in pancreatic cancer patients.
Polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs; CAS number 1336-36-3) are a class of organic compounds with 1 to 10 chlorine atoms attached to biphenyl, which is a molecule composed of two benzene rings.
The chemical formula for PCBs is C12H10-xClx.
PCBs were widely used for many applications, especially as dielectric fluids in transformers, capacitors, and coolants.
Due to PCB's toxicity and classification as a persistent organic pollutant, PCB production was banned by the United States Congress in 1979 and by the Stockholm Convention on Persistent Organic Pollutants in 2001.
Concerns about the toxicity of PCBs are largely based on compounds within this group which share a structural similarity and toxic mode of action with dioxin as well as hormone distruption due to similar structure and function of Thyroxine and Estradiol, the main estrogen compound in humans.
The NF2 gene (neurofibromin 2 (merlin)) is located on chromosome 22q12.2.
This gene encodes a protein that is similar to some members of the ERM (ezrin, radixin, moesin) family of proteins that are thought to link cytoskeletal components with proteins in the cell membrane.
This gene product has been shown to interact with cell-surface proteins, proteins involved in cytoskeletal dynamics and proteins involved in regulating ion transport.
This gene is expressed at high levels during embryonic development; in adults, significant expression is found in Schwann cells, meningeal cells, lens and nerve.
Mutations in this gene are associated with neurofibromatosis type II which is characterized by nervous system and skin tumors and ocular abnormalities.
Two predominant isoforms and a number of minor isoforms are produced by alternatively spliced transcripts.
Scrapie is a fatal, degenerative disease affecting the central nervous system of sheep and goats.
It is in the same class of diseases as BSE in cattle and Chronic Wasting Disease in elk and deer.
Transmission of the classical scrapie agent is not completely understood but apparently healthy sheep infected with the agent can transmit disease.
Sheep and goats are typically infected as young lambs or kids, though adult sheep and goats can become infected.
The infecting agent or prion is a mal-formed version (PrPsc) of a normal protein (PrP) found in all animals.
The malformation of the normal prion proteins occurs when they are exposed to the mal-formed version of the protein.
The normal prion proteins may be more or less susceptible to malformation when they are exposed to the mal-formed protein based on their genetic makeup.
Resistance or susceptibility has been linked to the presence of certain amino acids at various locations within the normal protein.
Genotyping determines the amino acids present at specific locations or codons in the prion protein.
These are reported as a pair of one character amino acid codes such as RR, RH, QQ, etc.
This testing does not diagnosis Scrapie, but is an important tool for selecting genetically resistant animals for breeding and eradication.
Codons associated with susceptibility/resistance to scrapie include codon 112, 136, 141, 154 and 171.
Codon 112 codes for either methionine (M) or threonine (T).
The presence of T at codon 112 has been associated with increased resistance to scrapie.
The PTCH gene (patched 1) gene is located on chromosome 9q22.3.
This gene encodes a member of the patched gene family.
The encoded protein is the receptor for sonic hedgehog, a secreted molecule implicated in the formation of embryonic structures and in tumorigenesis, as well as the desert hedgehog and indian hedgehog proteins.
This gene functions as a tumor suppressor.
Mutations of this gene have been associated with basal cell nevus syndrome, esophageal squamous cell carcinoma, trichoepitheliomas, transitional cell carcinomas of the bladder, as well as holoprosencephaly.
Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms.
Additional splice variants have been described, but their full length sequences and biological validity cannot be determined currently.
A fumonisin is a mycotoxin derived from Fusarium.
Semisynthetic, broad-spectrum antibiotic derivative of CEPHALEXIN.
The MAP2K2 gene (mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase 2) is located on chromosome 19p13.3.
The protein encoded by this gene is a dual specificity protein kinase that belongs to the MAP kinase kinase family.
This kinase is known to play a critical role in mitogen growth factor signal transduction.
It phosphorylates and thus activates MAPK1/ERK2 and MAPK2/ERK3.
The activation of this kinase itself is dependent on the Ser/Thr phosphorylation by MAP kinase kinase kinases.
Mutations in this gene cause cardiofaciocutaneous syndrome (CFC syndrome), a disease characterized by heart defects, mental retardation, and distinctive facial features similar to those found in Noonan syndrome.
The inhibition or degradation of this kinase is also found to be involved in the pathogenesis of Yersinia and anthrax.
A pseudogene, which is located on chromosome 7, has been identified for this gene.
Kaposi's sarcoma-associated herpesvirus (KSHV) is one of seven currently known human cancer viruses, or oncoviruses.
It is also the eighth human herpesvirus; its formal name according to the International Committee on Taxonomy of Viruses (ITCV) is HHV-8.
Like other herpesviruses, its informal name (KSHV) is used interchangeably with its ITCV name.
This virus causes Kaposi's sarcoma, a cancer commonly occurring in AIDS patients, as well as primary effusion lymphoma and some types of multicentric Castleman's disease.
While the role of this virus in causing cancer has been well-established for over a decade, a recent survey shows that only 6% of gay and bisexual men who are at risk for KSHV infection and Kaposi's sarcoma are aware of this link.
Cefiderocol is an injectable siderophore cephalosporin used to treat complicated urinary tract infections (UTIs), including pyelonephritis.
It is active against both carbapenem-resistant Enterobacteriaceae (CRE) and drug-resistant non-fermenting Gram-negative bacilli.
In addition to the treatment of complicated UTIs, Cefiderocol is being evaluated for the treatment of nosocomial pneumonia and other carbapenem-resistant infections.
Citrin also known as solute carrier family 25, member 13 (citrin) or SLC25A13 is a protein which in humans is encoded by the SLC25A13 gene.
Citrin is associated with type II citrullinemia
Mutations in RREB1, CDKN2A, and D8Z2 genes are associated with malignant melanocytic lesions arising in the skin.
While many lesions can be easily classified as benign nevi or malignant melanoma based on histologic features alone, a significant subset of lesions require additional testing to determine their status.
Because the course of treatment for malignant melanoma relative to benign lesions varies significantly from the time of diagnosis, accuracy and expediency of the diagnosis are necessary.
Gene mutation analysis for RREB1, CDKN2A, and D8Z2 genes aid in the differentiation of benign from malignant melanocytic lesions.
Acquired or Pseudo-Pelger-Huet anomaly develops in the course of acute or chronic myelogenous leukemia and in myelodysplastic syndromes.
In patients with these conditions, the pseudo-Pelger-Huët cells tend to appear late in the disease and often appear after considerable chemotherapy has been administered.
The morphologic changes have also been described in myxedema associated with panhypopituitarism, vitamin B-12 and folate deficiency, multiple myeloma, enteroviral infections, malaria, muscular dystrophy, leukemoid reactions secondary to metastases to the bone marrow, and drug sensitivity, sulfa and valproate toxicities are examples.
In some of these conditions,espcially the drug induced cases identifying the change as Pelger-Huet anomaly is important because it obviates the need for further unnecessary testing for cancer.
periperal blood smear shows a predominence of neutrophils with bilobed nuclei which are composed of two nuclear masses connected with a thin filament of chromatin.
It resembles the pince-nez glasses so it is often refereed to as pince-nez appearance
The Influenza nucleoprotein antibody test is useful as a screening test for detection of type A influenza viruses such as swine influenza virus (SIV), and influenza A viruses in other species such as equine, canine, and feline.
Influenza virus nucleoprotein (NP) switches RNA synthesis from transcription mode to replication mode.
It is therefore vital to the infectious cycle of the influenza virus.
Although it is required for this process, the function of NP in replication is not yet clear.
Research suggests that the common ancestor of the H1N1 human and classical swine viruses is an avian virus rather than human or swine influenza A viruses.
Measurements of acylcarnitines have been used to assist in the diagnosis of multiple disorders of amino acid, fatty acid, and organic acid metabolism, especially those involving fatty acid beta-oxidation.
Elevated C5:1 (isomers tiglylcarnitine or methylcrotonylcarnitine) occur in beta-ketothiolase deficiency (BKD) and holocarboxylase synthetase deficiency.
The 5-beta-reduced isomer of ANDROSTERONE.
Etiocholanolone is a major metabolite of TESTOSTERONE and ANDROSTENEDIONE in many mammalian species including humans.
It is excreted in the URINE.
Ulmus pumila L., the Siberian Elm, is native to Turkestan, eastern Siberia, Mongolia, Xizang (Tibet), northern China, India (northern Kashmir) and Korea.
It is also known as the Asiatic Elm, Dwarf Elm and (erroneously) Chinese Elm.
U. pumila has been widely cultivated throughout Asia, North America and, to a lesser extent, southern Europe.
Gladiolus (from Latin, the diminutive of gladius, a sword) is a genus of perennial bulbous flowering plants in the iris family (Iridaceae).
Sometimes called the sword lily, the most widely used English common name for these plants is simply gladiolus (plural gladioli, gladioluses or sometimes gladiolas).
Burr cells (echinocytes) appear crenated in a blood smear and have serrated edges over the entire surface of the cell.
Burr cells are seen in both liver disease and end-stage renal disease .
The liquid volume of gas delivered by the gas delivery system, such as an anesthesia gas machine or ventilator, to a single patient during a single procedure.
Abciximab is a platelet aggregation inhibitor mainly used during and after coronary artery procedures like angioplasty to prevent platelets from sticking together and causing thrombus (blood clot) formation within the coronary artery.
It is a glycoprotein IIb/IIIa inhibitor.
Many of the side effects of abciximab are due to its anti-platelet effects.
This includes an increased risk of bleeding.
The most common type of bleeding due to abciximab is gastrointestinal hemorrhage.
Thrombocytopenia is a rare but known serious risk.
Abciximab-induced thrombocytopenia can typically be treated with transfusion of platelets.
Abciximab induced thrombocytopenia can last for seven days after initial drug administration.
Viral genomic sequencing is performed on patient plasma.
Genomic mutations may occur, resulting in resistance to specific antiretroviral drugs.
Fosamprenavir is an antiretroviral drug used in the treatment of HIV.
Drug resistance reports assist with treatment decisions.
The Piper nigrum bush produces stone fruits; green when unripe, then red and finally yellowish.
Black pepper is made from the unripened fruit as it begins to turn red.
Spices may uncommonly induce symptoms of food allergy in sensitised individuals.
Symptoms are usually mild but may vary from itching and smarting of the lips and mouth to anaphylaxis.
The APOA2 gene (apolipoprotein A2) is located on chromosome 1q23.3.
This gene encodes apolipoprotein (apo-) A-II, which is the second most abundant protein of the high density lipoprotein particles.
The protein is found in plasma as a monomer, homodimer, or heterodimer with apolipoprotein D. Defects in this gene may result in apolipoprotein A-II deficiency or hypercholesterolemia.
The Streptococcus anginosus group, also known as milleri group streptococci, is a subgroup of viridans streptococci that includes 3 distinct species with clinical similarities: S. anginosus, S. intermedius, and S. constellatus.
The S. anginosus group organisms are generally considered to be normal human flora of the oral cavity, gastrointestinal tract and female urogenital tract, but they also are a known cause of purulent infections and abscesses .
The ALAS2 gene (5'-aminolevulinate synthase 2) is located on chromosome Xp11.21.
The product of this gene specifies an erythroid-specific mitochondrially located enzyme.
The encoded protein catalyzes the first step in the heme biosynthetic pathway.
Defects in this gene cause X-linked pyridoxine-responsive sideroblastic anemia.
Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been identified.
Azlocillin is an acyl ampicillin antibiotic with an extended spectrum of activity and greater in vitro potency than the carboxy penicillins.
Azlocillin is similar to mezlocillin and piperacillin.
It demonstrates antibacterial activity against a broad spectrum of bacteria, including Pseudomonas aeruginosa and, in contrast to most cephalosporins, exhibits activity against enterococci.
A picornavirus is a virus belonging to the family Picornaviridae.
Picornaviruses are non-enveloped, positive-stranded RNA viruses with an icosahedral capsid.
The genome RNA is unusual because it has a protein on the 5' end that is used as a primer for transcription by RNA polymerase.
The name is derived from pico meaning small, and RNA referring to the ribonucleic acid genome, so "picornavirus" literally means small RNA virus.
Picornaviruses are separated into 12 distinct genera and include many important pathogens of humans and animals.
The diseases they cause are varied, ranging from acute "common-cold"-like illnesses, to poliomyelitis, to chronic infections in livestock.
A benzodiazepine with pharmacologic actions similar to those of Diazepam that can cause anterograde amnesia.
Some reports indicate that it is used as a date rape drug and suggest that it may precipitate violent behavior.
The United States Government has banned the importation of this drug.
The complement system is a key part of the immune system and inflammatory response.
The system has three pathways: 1) the classic pathway, 2) the alternative pathway, and 3) the lectin activation pathway.
Complement (C1) is composed of 3 subunits: C1q, C1r, and C1s.
Complement C1q initiates the complement pathway by binding to immunoglobulins.
Absent or decreased levels of Complement C1q are seen in patients with acquired angioedema, systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE), polymyositis, and other immune complex diseases.
Complement tests measure either the quantity or the activity (function) of complement proteins.
In some cases, complement proteins are present but not functional, in which case a functional assay is used to detect the deficiency.
Entamoeba moshkovskii is a free-living environmental ameba discovered in 1941.
Originally thought to be non-pathogenic, recent reports suggest E moshkovskii as a cause of gastrointestinal symptoms including diarrhea and dysentery.
Malondialdehyde (MDA) is a reactive and potentially mutagenic organic compound.
It can be found in heated edible oils such as sunflower and palm oils and is a marker for oxidative stress.
Increased levels of MDA have been found in corneas of patients suffering from keratoconus and bullous keratopathy.
MDA also can be found in tissue sections of joints from patients with osteoarthritis.
The waveform found on a multifocal electroretinogram (mfERG) is typically a biphasic wave.
The first deflection is negative, the second is positive, and the third is negative, and the three peaks are called N1, P1, and N2, respectively.
The amplitude and implicit time can be measured for each, though P1 amplitude and implicit time are the most common measurements.
Kallikreins (tissue and plasma kallikrein) are peptidases (enzymes that cleave peptide bonds in proteins), a subgroup of the serine protease family.
They liberate kinins (BK and KD) from the kininogens.
It also generates plasmin from plasminogen.
In a study of fish- and crustacea-allergic adults, the reactivity to mackerel was the second highest.
Species within groups of fish, like Gadiformes (examples: codfish and hake) and Scombroid fishes (examples: mackerel and tuna) seem to share allergenic components.
The overlap of allergen specificity between the groups seems to be moderate or even small.
Number of pressure ulcers observed at a particular stage.
BB-22 3-carboxyindole is a metabolite of BB-22 hydroxyquinolines and BB-22 (QUCHIC or 1-(cyclohexylmethyl)-1H-indole-3-carboxylic acid 8-quinolinyl ester), a synthetic cannabinoid that binds to the cannabinoid CB1 and CB2 receptors.
BB-22 is an analog of JWH 018, another potent synthetic cannabinoid.
Synthetic cannabinoids interact with the same brain receptors as THC (the active drug present in marijuana) and have been demonstrated to produce similar effects.
The drug is typically sprayed on botanical material and smoked, although it can be ingested in liquid or powder form.
Products containing this drug are sold under a wide variety of names including (but not limited to)
Spice, Potpourri, Smoke, K2, Zombie, Kush, and Cloud 10.
A widely used industrial solvent.
Phylloquinone is a polycyclic aromatic ketone, based on 2-methyl-1,4-naphthoquinone, with a 3-phytyl substituent.
It is a fat-soluble vitamin that is stable to air and moisture but decomposes in sunlight.
It is found naturally in a wide variety of green plants.
It is often called vitamin K1 or phytonadione.
The radish (Raphanus sativus) is an edible root vegetable of the Brassicaceae family that was domesticated in Europe in pre-Roman times.
They are grown and consumed throughout the world.
Radishes have numerous varieties, varying in size, color and duration of required cultivation time.
There are some radishes that are grown for their seeds; oilseed radishes are grown, as the name implies, for oil production.
The Stx1 toxin A subunit is encoded by the stx1 gene and the Stx2 toxin
A subunit is encoded by the stx2 gene.
Stx1a and Stx2a are produced by some serogroups of Escherichia coli (also known as Vero toxins and previously referred to as Shiga-like toxins) are two cytotoxins that cause hemorrhagic colitis (HC) and hemolytic uremic syndrome (HUS).
The two toxins produce similar symptoms, but are immunologically unique.
Both toxins are composed of a single copy of subunit A and five copies of subunit B. Stx1a and Stx1b induce host cell apoptosis by removing an adenine residue from the 28S rRNA of the 60S ribosome, with RNA-N-glycosidase activity provided by subunit A.
The five B subunits bind to the host cell receptor present on endothelial cells.
Shigella toxin-producing Escherichia coli (STEC) has become a serious food-borne pathogen.
Outbreaks of STEC have been associated with the consumption of pork products resulting in HC and HUS.
STEC in swine has been demonstrated to cause edema disease.
Epidemiological studies throughout the world have proven that STEC can be harbored and shed by domestic swine.
First recorded in the Himalayan foothills of India, Cucumber has been cultivated for over 4,000 years.
This long, cylindrical, green-skinned fruit of the gourd family has edible seeds surrounded by a mild, crisp flesh.
Leading countries in the growing of Cucumbers include Britain, China, India, Iraq, Java, Kurdistan, Turkey, and Venezuela.
Cucumber can induce symptoms of food allergy in sensitised individuals.
Anaphylaxis due to Cucumber is rare but has been reported.
Rubinstein-Taybi syndrome is an autosomal dominant condition that has been linked with various genetic variants.
Some cases of Rubinstein-Taybi are due to deletions in the 16p chromosome region, which deletion includes the loss of the CREBBP gene.
The CREBBP gene encodes CREB binding protein, which helps regulate cell growth and division and is essential for normal fetal development.
A small percentage are caused by mutations in the EP300 gene, located on chromosome 22q13.2, which also plays a role in fetal growth and development.
This syndrome is associated with short stature, moderate to severe intellectual disability, distinctive facial features, and broad thumbs and first toes, and some patients may also have eye abnormalities, heart and kidney defects, dental problems, and obesity.
Patients with Rubinstein-Taybi are at increased risk of developing noncancerous and cancerous tumors, including certaintypes of brain tumors and leukemia.
Infants born with a severe form of this disorder usually only survive until early childhood.
Rubinstein-Taybi syndrome occurs in approximately 1 in 100,000 to 125,000 live births.
In Thromboelastography, the coagulation index is calculated from the reaction time (R - the time to initial clot formation), the clot formation rate (K - the time from initial clot formation to a fixed level of clot firmness), the angle (A - the angle formed by the early slope of the clot) and the maximum amplitude (MA - the greatest width of the clot)
Metoprolol is a beta-1 selective beta-adrenergic blocking agent and is used primarily for the treatment of hypertension.
Information from National Medical Service.
Squalene is a naturally occurring polyprenyl compound and an intermediate metabolite in the synthesis of cholesterol.
Serum squalene originates from endogenous cholesterol synthesis and from dietary sources.
One study found that women with elevated ratios of serum squalene, campesterol and sitosterol to cholesterol and low respective lathosterol values have enhanced risk for coronary artery disease (CAD).
Creatorrhea is the abnormal excretion of muscle fibers in feces.
Digestion of food is achieved through both mechanical and chemical processes.
Failure to produce or secrete digestive enzymes can lead to failure digesting or breaking down specific components of ingested food.
Phosphatidylethanolamine (cephalin, sometimes abbreviated PE) is a lipid found in biological membranes.
It is synthesized by the addition of CDP-ethanolamine to diglyceride, releasing CMP.
S-adenosyl methionine can subsequently methylate the amine of phosphatidyl ethanolamine to yield phosphatidyl choline.
Cephalin is a phospholipid, which is a lipid derivative.
It is not to be confused with the molecule of the same name that is an alkaloid constituent of Ipecac.
Trichosporon is a genus of anamorphic fungi in the family Trichosporonaceae.
All species of Trichosporon are yeasts with no known teleomorphs (sexual states).
Most are typically isolated from soil, but several species occur as a natural part of the skin microbiota of humans and other animals.
Proliferation of Trichosporon yeasts in the hair can lead to an unpleasant but non-serious condition known as white piedra.
Trichosporon species can also cause severe opportunistic infections (trichosporonosis) in immunocompromised individuals.
Coronaviruses (CoVs) are enveloped, non-segmented positive-sense RNA viruses that cause a range of respiratory infections in humans from mild respiratory symptoms to Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (SARS-CoV).
Typically the virus is allowed to run its course and explicit identification of the virus is not needed.
When identifying the virus is necessary for specific clinical cases or epidemiological studies, reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) is used, though serologic assays may be needed in cases where RNA is hard to isolate, no longer present, and for epidemiological studies.
Treatment is primarily supportive.
Bermuda grass is found in much of Europe though not Scandinavia, in the USA, South Africa, Australia, India, and Japan.
It probably originated in India.
It is the dominant forage grass of Brazil.
It is the most common tropical lawn grass, especially in dry areas, and an important pasture grass in the southern US.
It is considered to be one of the most allergenic grasses.
Bermuda grass pollen is a very common source of pollinosis throughout the world and is a potent inducer of asthma, allergic rhinitis and allergic conjunctivitis.
The SCO1 gene (SCO1 cytochrome c oxidase assembly protein) is located on chromosome 17p13.1.
Mammalian cytochrome c oxidase (COX) catalyzes the transfer of reducing equivalents from cytochrome c to molecular oxygen and pumps protons across the inner mitochondrial membrane.
In yeast, 2 related COX assembly genes, SCO1 and SCO2 (synthesis of cytochrome c oxidase), enable subunits 1 and 2 to be incorporated into the holoprotein.
This gene is the human homolog to the yeast SCO1 gene.
Lactose is a sugar found in milk and milk products.
The small intestine, the organ where most food digestion and nutrient absorption take place, produces an enzyme called lactase, which breaks down lactose into two simpler forms of sugar: glucose and galactose.
People with small intestinal lactase deficiency cannot digest much lactose, which may cause lactose malabsorption.
In lactose malabsorption, undigested lactose passes to the colon, where bacteria break down undigested lactose and create fluid and gas.
Not all people with lactase deficiency and lactose malabsorption have digestive symptoms.
Lactose intolerance is usually diagnosed by patient history, physical exam, and the hydrogen breath test and/or stool acidity test.
Although it is rarely done, the reference standard for diagnosing lactase insufficiency is directly measuring lactase activity in a duodenal biopsy specimen.
Casts are small mucoprotein tube-shaped structures formed in the distal convoluted tubules of the kidney.
White blood cell (WBC) casts contain WBCs in their matrix and are most frequently detected in acute pyelonephritis, a direct infection of the kidney.
They may also be seen in inflammations, such as acute allergic interstitial nephritis or post-streptococcal acute glomerulonephritis.
Species of gram-negative bacteria in the family ANAPLASMATACEAE, causing EHRLICHIOSIS in DOGS.
The most common vector is the brown dog tick.
It can also cause disease in humans.
3-dimensional (3D) printed models can be created using various 3D technologies, including inkjet, stereolithography, and fused-deposition modeling.
Such models have been used for various purposes, including preoperative planning, creation of custom prostheses, teaching and research.
DICOM images from CT, MR and US imaging can be used as templates for 3D models by converting the DICOM file to one of the formats compatible with 3D printing.
The WAS gene (Wiskott-Aldrich syndrome) is located on chromosome Xp11.4-p11.21.
The Wiskott-Aldrich syndrome (WAS) family of proteins share similar domain structure, and are involved in transduction of signals from receptors on the cell surface to the actin cytoskeleton.
The presence of a number of different motifs suggests that they are regulated by a number of different stimuli, and interact with multiple proteins.
Recent studies have demonstrated that these proteins, directly or indirectly, associate with the small GTPase, Cdc42, known to regulate formation of actin filaments, and the cytoskeletal organizing complex, Arp2/3.
Wiskott-Aldrich syndrome is a rare, inherited, X-linked, recessive disease characterized by immune dysregulation and microthrombocytopenia, and is caused by mutations in the WAS gene.
The WAS gene product is a cytoplasmic protein, expressed exclusively in hematopoietic cells, which show signalling and cytoskeletal abnormalities in WAS patients.
A transcript variant arising as a result of alternative promoter usage, and containing a different 5' UTR sequence, has been described, however, its full-length nature is not known.
N-Methylformamide (NMF) is a colorless, nearly odorless, organic compound with molecular formula CH3NHCHO, which is a liquid at room temperature.
It is infinitely soluble in water
1,3,5-Trichlorobenzene is a good solvent for fullerene, while strongly carcinogenic.
Cantaloupe (also cantaloup, muskmelon or rockmelon) refers to two varieties of Cucumis melo, which is a species in the family Cucurbitaceae, which includes nearly all melons and squashes.
Cantaloupes range in size from 0.5 kg to 5.0 kg.
Originally cantaloupe referred only to the non-netted orange-fleshed melons of Europe; however, in more recent usage it has come to mean any orange-fleshed melon (C. melo).
A scleroprotein fibril consisting mostly of type III collagen.
Reticulin fibrils are extremely thin, with a diameter of between 0.5 and 2 um.
They are involved in maintaining the structural integrity in a variety of organs.
Triacylglycerol lipase (also known as triglycerol lipase) is an enzyme produced by the pancreas in order to break down dietary fats into fatty acids.
The triacylglycerol lipase travels from the pancreatic duct to the duodenum where it hydrolyzes triglycerides.
Triacylglycerol levels in the blood are measured to monitor pancreatic function.
Elevated levels of triacylglycerol lipase indicate a pancreatic disorder or pancreatic damage, including pancreatic duct obstruction, pancreatic cancer, gall bladder inflammation, or kidney disease.
A decreased level of triacylglycerol lipase in the blood can indicate the malfunctioning of the lipase-producing cells in the pancreas.
Lipase levels in peritoneal dialysis fluid can help determine the etiology of abdominal peritonitis.
Patients with peritonitis due to pancreatitis have significantly higher levels of lipase in peritoneal dialysis fluid compared to patients without pancreatitis.
Microscopy is a technique that uses microscopes to examine objects too small to be seen with the naked eye.
Microscopic observation is what is detected when using a microscope.
For example, the microscopic observation when looking at a gram stain would be gram postive bacteria (bacteria stained purple) and gram negative bacteria (bacteria stained red).
The jack jumper ant, hopper ant, jumper ant or jumping jack, Myrmecia pilosula, is a species of bull ant that is native to Australia
Dihydroorotic acid is an intermediate in the metabolism of pyrimidine.
Glutamine, ATP, and carbon dioxide are converted into dihydroorotic acid, which oxidizes to orotic acid by dihydroorotate dehydrogenase.
Dihydroorotic acid, orotic acid and other de novo metabolites in urine are useful in investigating inborn errors of the pyrimidine metabolism or urea cycle defects.
Microsatellite instability (MSI) is a change in the number of repeats of a specific DNA marker in cancer cells compared to the number of repeats present in non-cancerous cells of the same patient.
Different tumor types are associated with different MSI markers, and both the presence of MSI in specific markers as well as the the number of distinct markers demonstrating MSI is important.
Tumor cells are classified as being stable, having high instability (MSI-H), or having low instability (MSI-L) based on the number of markers demonstrating MSI.
MSI analysis may help guide therapy and be a prognostic indicator.
Specific MSI markers include BAT25, BAT26, D2S123, D5S346, D17S2720, NR21, NR24 and MONO27.
MSI has been most studied in colorectal cancer, and colorectal tumors that are MSI-H are more likely to be carcinomas than adenomas.
MSI has also been studied in other types of cancer, including gastric cancer, breast cancer, lung cancer and Wilms tumor.
Mitochondrial DNA complex V include the following genes: MT-ATP6, MT-ATP8
3-Hydroxyanthranilic acid is an intermediate in the metabolism of tryptophan.
Cytochrome P450 1A2 (CYP1A2)-mediated drug metabolism is highly variable and often based on a patient's genotype.
Genetic testing is performed to identifying patients who are poor, intermediate, extensive, or ultrarapid metabolizers of drugs metabolized by CYP1A2.
The CYP1A2 c.3533G>A polymorphism leads to no activity of the CYP1A2 enzyme.
Diazomethane is the chemical compound CH2N2.
It is one of the more common diazo compounds.
In the pure form at room temperature, it is a famously explosive yellow gas, but it is almost universally used as a solution in diethyl ether.
The compound is a popular methylating agent in the laboratory, but it is too hazardous to be employed on a technical scale without special precautions.
Thioridazine (Mellaril, Melleril, Sonapax, Thioril) is a piperidine typical antipsychotic drug of the phenothiazine drug class and was previously widely used in the treatment of schizophrenia and psychosis.
Due to concerns about cardiotoxicity and retinopathy at high doses it has been withdrawn in many countries (including the UK and Australia) and in other countries it is not commonly prescribed, reserved for patients who have failed to respond to, or have contraindications for, more widely used antipsychotics.
It has been tried with some success as a treatment for various psychiatric symptoms seen in patients with dementia.
Thioridazine is known to kill intracellular extensively drug-resistant (XDR) Mycobacterium tuberculosis and both inhibit MRSA directly but also increase the susceptibility of MRSA to β-lactam antibiotics at clinical concentrations.
It also appears to increase the efficacy of standard antimicrobial agents (even ones to which the strain in question is resistant) in treating XDR-tuberculosis (XDR-TB) via inhibiting bacterial efflux pumps.(Wikipedia)
C-terminal, also known as copeptin, is a 39-amino acid glycopeptide that comprises the C-terminal part of provasopressin, a precursor of vasopressin.
Copeptin is more stable in serum or plasma compared to vasopressin and copeptin assays are simpler and less time-consuming to run.
In addition, copeptin has been shown to be a sensitive surrogate marker for vasopressin release.
Copeptin is used to help diagnose diabetes insipidus and monitor various conditions, including sepsis and cardiovascular diseases.
Leptospira interrogans serovar Kremastos is mainly found in the North Queensland coastal areas of Australia.
Rainforest animals such as rats and bandicoots are the main carriers, and probable sources of infection include contact with soil, water or other materials contaminated with the urine of an infected animal.
Recently, human leptospirosis cases due to the Kremastos serovar have increased, though there are still fewer than ten reported cases per year.
A mixture of white, soft cheeses (Camembert, Brie, Gorgonzola, Roquefort)
In a recent review of atopic food allergy, cheese was the third most important allergen involved in 12.9% of 402 predominantly adults with confirmed food allergy.
Veterinary Medicine: Difloxacin (INN) is a fluoroquinolone antibiotic used in veterinary medicine.
Although a broad-spectrum antimicrobial, its efficacy is not as good as enrofloxacin or pradofloxacin.
Mycobacterium avium complex (MAC) is a group of genetically related bacteria belonging to the genus Mycobacterium.
It includes Mycobacterium avium and Mycobacterium intracellulare.
Bourbon virus was identified in Bourbon County, Kansas in 2014.
Bourbon virus belongs to the group of viruses called thogotoviruses.
Bourbon virus is an enveloped RNA virus belonging to the family Orthomyxoviridae, genus Thogotovirus.
Mode of transmission is unknown, but likely occurs through tick or other insect bites.
Symptoms include fever, fatigue, maculopapular rash, headache, body aches, nausea, and vomiting.
Thrombocytopenia and leukopenia have also been reported .
A FENFLURAMINE analog that inhibits serotonin uptake and may provoke release of serotonin.
It is used as an appetite depressant and an experimental tool in animal studies.
The MT-ND6 (mitochondrially encoded NADH dehydrogenase 6) gene mutation that can cause Leigh syndrome, written as G14459A or Ala72Val, replaces the amino acid alanine with the amino acid valine at protein position 72.
This genetic change also has been found in people with Leber hereditary optic neuropathy and a movement disorder called dystonia, which involves involuntary muscle contractions, tremors, and other uncontrolled movements.
This mutation appears to disrupt the normal assembly or activity of complex I in mitochondria.
It is not known, however, how this MT-ND6 gene alteration is related to the specific features of Leigh syndrome, Leber hereditary optic neuropathy, or dystonia.
It also remains unclear why a single mutation can cause such varied signs and symptoms in different people.
Metformin is a biguanide oral hypoglycemic agent used mainly for treatment of type II diabetes mellitus.
The strawberry (Fragaria) is a genus of plants in the family Rosaceae, and the fruit of these plants.
There are more than 20 named species and many hybrids and cultivars.
The most common strawberries grown commercially are cultivars of the Garden strawberry, Fragaria - ananassa.
Strawberries are a valuable source of vitamin C.
The haddock or offshore hake is a marine fish distributed on both sides of the North Atlantic.
Haddock is a popular food fish, widely fished commercially.
The Toscana virus (TOSV) belongs to the Bunyaviridae family whose genome is made of three negative single-stranded RNA segments.
There are two genotypes of TOSV:
A, found mainly in Italy, and B, occurring mainly in Spain.
The distribution of the two genotypes may indicate the involvement of different vectors.
Infection by TOSV is most prevalent in Italy and Spain in the summer months, though the geographical region where TOSV is expanding includes other countries in the Mediterranean basin.
TOSV is transmitted to humans by the Phlebotomus species of sandflies.
Though the animal reservoir has not been identified, TOSV has been isolated from the brain of a bat, which raises the question of it possibly being a host to the virus.
TOSV causes aseptic meningitis in 95% of the people it infects, meningoencephalitis in 4.5% of those infected, and an influenza-like illness in the remaining .5% who are infected.
Recently, unusual symptoms associated with TOSV have included ischemic complications and hydrocephalus.
TOSV is emerging as an important pathogen as its distribution increases due to changes in the climate, globalization and habitat modification.
Other than supportive therapy, there is no treatment for infection with TOSV.
DNA topoisomerase 2-alpha is an enzyme that in humans is encoded by the TOP2A gene.
This gene encodes a DNA topoisomerase, an enzyme that controls and alters the topologic states of DNA during transcription.
This nuclear enzyme is involved in processes such as chromosome condensation, chromatid separation, and the relief of torsional stress that occurs during DNA transcription and replication.
It catalyzes the transient breaking and rejoining of two strands of duplex DNA which allows the strands to pass through one another, thus altering the topology of DNA.
Two forms of this enzyme exist as likely products of a gene duplication event.
The gene encoding this form, alpha, is localized to chromosome 17 and the beta gene is localized to chromosome 3.
The gene encoding this enzyme functions as the target for several anticancer agents and a variety of mutations in this gene have been associated with the development of drug resistance.
Reduced activity of this enzyme may also play a role in ataxia-telangiectasia.
The V wave represents the passive increase in pressure and volume of the atrium during late systole and early diastole, before the tricuspid or mitral valve opens.
A colostomy is a surgical procedure that connects the distal end of the large intestine to the abdominal wall via an opening (stoma) made in the abdominal wall.
After this procedure, stool will collect into a bag attached to the abdomen through the stoma.
A colostomy is performed for several reasons, including abdominal infection,severe inflammatory bowel disease, intestinal obstruction or cancer.
A colostomy can be either temporary or permanent depending on the disease or injury.
In most cases, it can be reversed.
Jaw winking is synkinesis (aberrant connection of nerves after an injury) involving involuntary narrowing of the palpebral fissure with jaw movement.
Porcine circovirus 2 (PCV2) is a small, nonenveloped DNA virus that is associated with disease in pigs.
PCV2 isolate typing is important for epidemiologic purposes, both within a single farm, regionally, and globally.
Restriction fragment length polymorphism (RFLP) analysis is used to determine the "cutting pattern" for an isolate based on three different enzymes with known patterns.
As a hypothetical example, one enzyme may be known to cut a specific 500 base pair (bp) segment of DNA into two pieces that are 200 and 300 bp, or three pieces that are 50, 150 and 300 bp, or to not cut the segment at all depending on the nucleotide sequence in that specific sample.
The two piece pattern might be labeled "1", the three piece pattern "2", and the single, original piece "3".
The individual pattern numbers for three different enzymes are put together as a single RFLP pattern, e.g., 3-1-2 or 1-1-1.
Each of these RFLP patterns identifies a unique strain of PCV2, which information is used for epidemiologic analysis such as determining the source of an outbreak and tracking the spread of disease.
A superficial biopsy is one where the biopsy target is palpable externally, and a deep biopsy is one where the target is not palpable externally.
Large, phagocytic mononuclear leukocytes, produced in the vertebrate bone marrow and released into the blood.
Monocytes contain a large, oval or somewhat indented nucleus surrounded by a large cytoplasm and numerous organelles.
Baclofen (brand names Kemstro, Lioresal, Liofen, Gablofen, Beklo and Baclosan) is a derivative of gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) and acts as an agonist for the GABA-B receptors.
It is primarily used to treat spasticity.
It has also been used to treat symptoms of opiate withdrawl, including muscle cramps and muscle pain as well as the intense shivering often experienced.
Research has shown it may be an effective treatment for alcohol dependence and withdrawal, by inhibiting both withdrawal symptoms and cravings.
Oral dosage must be carefully regulated; significantly high doses of the drug, particularly 80 mg per day or higher, can cause excessive ataxia and/or drowsiness that can interfere with daily function.
The FKRP gene (fukutin related protein) is located on chromosome 19q13.32.
This gene encodes a protein which is targeted to the medial Golgi apparatus and is necessary for posttranslational modification of dystroglycan.
Mutations in this gene have been associated with congenital muscular dystrophy, mental retardation, and cerebellar cysts.
Several alternatively spliced transcript variants of this gene have been described, but the full-length nature of some of these variants has not been determined.
It is one of the steriod metabolites.
It is found in the urine of pregnant (36-40 weeks of gestation) and nonpregnant women and in amniotic fluid from nearly fullterm pregnant women.
Western White Pine (Pinus monticola; family Pinaceae) is a species of pine that occurs in the mountains of the western United States and Canada, specifically the Sierra Nevada, the Cascade Range, the Coast Range, and the northern Rocky Mountains.
Lamellar bodies (or keratinosomes or Odland bodies) are secretory organelles found in type II pneumocytes and in keratinocytes.
In pneumocytes, the choline-based phospholipids that are stored in the lamellar bodies, serve as pulmonary surfactant after being released from the cell.
In the stratum granulosum layer of the epidermis, lamellar bodies are released from keratinocytes into the intercellular spaces to form an impermeable, lipid-containing sheet that serves to form a water barrier.
Found on Neutrophils, Eosinophils and Monocytes Associated with some AML; Reed-Sternberg cells
Human coronavirus (HCoV-NL63) was first identified in 2004 in a Dutch seven-month old infant with respiratory illness, but is now present world wide.
HCoV-NL63 typically infects children and the immunocommpromised, with mild upper respiratory symptoms (cough, runny nose, fever) or more actue lower respiratory tract involvement such as bronchiolitis and croup.
It is cause of up to 10% of all respiratory diseases.
Most commonly, reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) and other nucleic acid tests of nasopharyngeal samples are used for diagnosing coronavirus infections.
A highly toxic compound used as a gasoline additive.
It causes acute toxic psychosis or chronic poisoning if inhaled or absorbed through the skin.
Members of the Eucalyptus species are quick-growing evergreen trees or shrubs.
Eucalyptus is known to cause cutaneous diseases through its oil or pollens, and respiratory allergic diseases through its pollens.
Eucalyptus pollen may result in symptoms of asthma, hayfever and conjunctivitis.
The TWIST1 gene (twist family bHLH transcription factor 1) is located on chromosome 7p21.2.
Basic helix-loop-helix (bHLH) transcription factors have been implicated in cell lineage determination and differentiation.
The protein encoded by this gene is a bHLH transcription factor and shares similarity with another bHLH transcription factor, Dermo1.
The strongest expression of this mRNA is in placental tissue; in adults, mesodermally derived tissues express this mRNA preferentially.
Mutations in this gene have been found in patients with Saethre-Chotzen syndrome.
Butriptyline (Evadene, Evadyne, Evasidol, Centrolese) is a tricyclic antidepressant (TCA).
It is the isobutyl side chain homologue of amitriptyline and produces similar effects to it, but with less marked side effects like sedation and interactions with adrenergic drugs.
Intact insulin contains two chains (A and B) connected by disulfide bonds.
Intact insulin molecules as well as fragments of insulin and proinsulin (precursor to insulin) exist in patient specimens.
Measurement of intact insulin levels only is preferred since they are a direct measurement of biologically active and potentially dangerous levels instead of its inactive degraded pieces.
An overdose of insulin will cause hypoglycemic symptoms and may lead to unconsciousness, seizures, and even death.
Allyl chloride is the organic compound with the formula CH2=CHCH2Cl.
This colorless liquid is insoluble in water but soluble in common organic solvents.
It is mainly converted to epichlorohydrin, used in the production of plastics.
It is a chlorinated derivative of propylene.
Poliomyelitis, often called polio or infantile paralysis, is a viral paralytic disease.
The causative agent, a virus called poliovirus, enters the body orally, infecting the intestinal wall.
It may proceed to the blood stream and into the central nervous system causing muscle weakness and often paralysis.
An ancient disease, it was first recognized as a medical entity by Jakob Heine in 1840.
Eradication efforts led by the World Health Organization and The Rotary Foundation of Rotary International have reduced the number of annual diagnosed cases from the hundreds of thousands to around a thousand.
The Duffy glycoprotein is a receptor that binds cytokines released during inflammation.
It also binds the malaria parasite Plasmodium vivax, and RBCs that lack the Duffy Fy^a and Fy^b antigens are resistant to invasion.
Structurally, the Duffy protein is similar to the family of G-protein coupled receptors, having 7 transmembrane domains FY has two major codominant alleles, FYA and FYB, which result from a SNP (125G→A), and the corresponding Fy^a and Fy^b antigens differ by a single amino acid (G42D).
Individuals who are homozygous for a -33T→C SNP in the erythroid promoter region of the FYB allele have the phenotype Fy(a-b-) and do not express Duffy antigens on their RBCs.
Beck L, Blood groups and red cell antigens. .
The AIP gene (aryl hydrocarbon receptor interacting protein) is located on chromosome 11q13.3.
The protein encoded by this gene is a receptor for aryl hydrocarbons and a ligand-activated transcription factor.
The encoded protein is found in the cytoplasm as part of a multiprotein complex, but upon binding of ligand is transported to the nucleus.
This protein can regulate the expression of many xenobiotic metabolizing enzymes.
Also, the encoded protein can bind specifically to and inhibit the activity of hepatitis B virus.
Three transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
and I are synthesized as procollagens with a small amino terminal and a larger carboxy terminal propeptide.
Once secreted into the extracellular space, the propeptides are removed by specific endopeptidases, thus allowing integration of the rigid collagen triple helix into the growing fibril.
The three-amino acid procollagen type III amino terminal peptide (PIIIP) formed during this process is released into the blood.
The serum concentration of PIIIP has been proposed as a useful marker of collagen type III synthesis.
Plasma cells (or plasmocytes) are cells of the immune system that secrete large amounts of antibodies.
They differentiate from B cells upon stimulation by antigen-activated CD4+ lymphocytes (or T lymphocytes).
They are found in the medulla of the lymph node, in the bone marrow and in the red pulp of the spleen.
The differentiation of B cells into plasma cells is accompanied by many morphological changes that allow the cell to synthesize and secrete large amounts of antibodies.
First cultivated by the Incas, the Potato even at this period existed in thousands of edible varieties.
It was brought to Europe in the 16th century by the Spaniards.
It comes fourth after Wheat, Rice and Maize as a staple crop.
Potato can induce symptoms of food allergy, sneezing, wheezing, asthma, rhino-conjunctivitis, atopic dermatitis contact urticaria, contact dermatitis and anaphylaxis in sensitised individuals
Recombinant non-glycosylated protein produced in an E. coli strain carrying a cloned cDNA encoding a part of w-5 gliadin from Triticum aestivum.
The filtration fraction (FF) is the ratio of the glomerular filtration rate (GFR) to the renal plasma flow (RPF) and represents the fraction of plasma perfusing the kidneys that is filtered.
Under normal conditions, the filtration fraction is about 20%.
The FF can help interpret GFR changes in the context of factors affecting blood flow to the kidneys, such as congestive heart failure .
The distance from the incisal edge of the mandibular central incisor to the Nasion-B point line
Airspeed is the speed of an aircraft relative to the air.
The activated partial thromboplastin time (aPTT) is used to evaluate the functionality of the intrinsic pathway of coagulation.
The aPTT can only detect deficiencies of factors VIII, IX, XI, and XII and only if the deficiency is 20-40% of normal.
Mixing studies are used to determine if a prolonged aPTT is due to a clotting factor deficiency or an anticoagulant.
The patient plasma is diluted with pooled normal plasma and the aPTT is run on that dilution.
If the dilution of patient plasma with normal plasma corrects the aPTT, then the patient most likely has a factor deficiency.
If the diluted patient plasma does continues to have a prolonged aPTT, then an anticoagulant is suspected.
Leishmaniasis is a vector-borne disease transmitted by sandflies and caused by intracellular protozoa of the genus Leishmania.
Human infection is caused by about 21 of 30 species that infect mammals, including the L. donovani complex with 3 species (L. donovani, L. infantum, and L. chagasi); the L. mexicana complex with 3 main species (L. mexicana, L. amazonensis, and L. venezuelensis); L. tropica; L. major; L. aethiopica; and the subgenus Viannia with 4 main species (L. (V.) braziliensis, L. (V.) guyanensis, L. (V.) panamensis, and L. (V.) peruviana).
The different species are morphologically indistinguishable, but they can be distinguished by isoenzyme analysis, molecular methods, or monoclonal antibodies.
Leishmaniasis is found in about 88 countries, most in the tropics and subtropics.
More than 90 percent of the world's cases of visceral leishmaniasis are in India, Bangladesh, Nepal, Sudan, and Brazil.
Leishmaniasis is also found in Mexico, Central America, and South America, from northern Argentina to Texas (not in Uruguay, Chile, or Canada), southern Europe, Asia (not Southeast Asia), the Middle East, and Africa.
Human Leishmaniasis comprises multiple clinical syndromes; visceral, cutaneous, and mucosal forms.
Infections can result in two main forms of disease, cutaneous leishmaniasis and visceral leishmaniasis (kala-azar).
Different species can be associated with diverse clinical manifestations and sequelae.
Species identification can facilitate clinical management.
Cutaneous leishmaniasis is characterized by cutaneous lesions.
Visceral leishmaniasis presents with fever, weight loss, and an enlarged spleen and liver.
Visceral leishmaniasis is becoming an important opportunistic infection in regions where it coexists with HIV.
Promyelocytes (or progranulocytes) are immature granulocytes developed from myeloblasts and developing into myelocytes.
Abnormal accumulation of promyelocytes is seen in acute promyelocytic leukemia (APL), a cancer of the blood and bone marrow.
Animal and plant proteins are made up of about 20 common amino acids.
Amino acids are required for the synthesis of body protein and other important nitrogen-containing compounds, such as creatine, peptide hormones, and some neurotransmitters.
Although allowances are expressed as protein, the biological requirement is for amino acids.
The proteins of the body are continually being broken down and re-synthesized in a process called protein turnover.
Protein is the main source of nitrogen and accounts for about 16% of the protein weight.
Protein deficiency rarely occurs as an isolated condition, and usually results from insufficient food intake.
The symptoms are most commonly seen in malnourished children in poor countries.
Proteins are found in both animal and plant foods.
The FGFR3 gene (fibroblast growth factor receptor 3) is located on chromosome 4p16.3.
This gene encodes a member of the fibroblast growth factor receptor (FGFR) family, with its amino acid sequence being highly conserved between members and among divergent species.
FGFR family members differ from one another in their ligand affinities and tissue distribution.
A full-length representative protein would consist of an extracellular region, composed of three immunoglobulin-like domains, a single hydrophobic membrane-spanning segment and a cytoplasmic tyrosine kinase domain.
The extracellular portion of the protein interacts with fibroblast growth factors, setting in motion a cascade of downstream signals, ultimately influencing mitogenesis and differentiation.
This particular family member binds acidic and basic fibroblast growth hormone and plays a role in bone development and maintenance.
Mutations in this gene lead to craniosynostosis and multiple types of skeletal dysplasia.
Three alternatively spliced transcript variants that encode different protein isoforms have been described.
Dysferlin also known as dystrophy-associated fer-1-like protein is a protein that in humans is encoded by the DYSF gene.
Dysferlin is linked with skeletal muscle repair.
A defect in the DYSF gene, located on chromosome 2p12-14, results in either of two types of muscular dystrophy; Miyoshi myopathy (MM) and Limb-girdle muscular dystrophy type 2B (LGMD2B).
A reduction or absence of dysferlin usually becomes apparent in the third or forth decade of life and is characterised by weakness and wasting of various voluntary skeletal muscles.
Antibodies directed to the phosphatidylserine and prothrombin (PS/PT) complex are detected in certain autoimmune thrombotic disorders, such as anti-phospholipid syndrome (APS).
The concentration of anti-PS/PT may also be used to confirm lupus anticoagulant (LA) activity in patients on anticoagulant therapy.
In these patients, LA testing may be falsely positive due to the anticoagulant interference or when the LA test is difficult to interpret.
Detecting PS/PT antibodies may also assist in determining thrombosis risk and possible obstetric complications in patients with antiphospholipid antibodies.
The HGD gene (homogentisate 1,2-dioxygenase) is located on chromosome 3q13.33.
This gene encodes the enzyme homogentisate 1,2 dioxygenase.
This enzyme is involved in the catabolism of the amino acids tyrosine and phenylalanine.
Mutations in this gene are the cause of the autosomal recessive metabolism disorder alkaptonuria.
Mutations in the CPT1A gene cause carnitine palmitoyltransferase I deficiency.
Mutations in the CPT1A gene lead to the production of a defective version of an enzyme called carnitine palmitoyltransferase I. Without this enzyme, long-chain fatty acids from food and fats stored in the body cannot be transported into mitochondria to be broken down and processed.
As a result, excessive levels of long-chain fatty acids may build up in tissues, damaging the liver, heart, and brain.
A cosmopolitan botfly of the genus Gasterophilus (G. intestinalis) that glues its eggs to the hairs especially ofthe forelegs of horses from where they are taken into the mouth and then hatch into young bots, pass into the stomach, and become attached to the lining.
Merriam-Webster, Inc. 17 Feb. 2010.
Zirconium, chemical element Zr and atomic number 40, is a lustrous, grey-white, strong transition metal that resembles hafnium, and is mainly used as a refractory and opacifier, and in small amounts as an alloying agent for its strong resistance to corrosion.
Materials fabricated from zirconium metal and its oxide (ZrO2) are used in space vehicle parts for their resistance to heat and in some abrasives, such as grinding wheels and sandpaper.
Zirconium containing compounds are also used in many biomedical applications such as dental implants and other restorative practices, knee and hip replacements, and middle-ear ossicular chain reconstruction.
Zirconium binds urea, a property that has been utilized extensively for renal dialysis patients, as a primary component of the sorbent column dependent dialysate regeneration and recirculation system.
The U.S. Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) recommends a 5 mg/m3 time weighted average limit and a 10 mg/m3 short-term exposure limit for air dust.
Zirconium compounds have no known biological role and are not considered an industrial health hazard.
Reports of zirconium related adverse reactions are rare and there is no evidence that zirconium is carcinogenic or genotoxic.
The amount of specimen (whole blood, plasma or serum, urine, stool, CSF, etc.) sent to the testing laboratory.
Specimen volume may also be the amount of sample used to perform the analysis (analytic volume) or that remained after testing (discard volume).
The VKORC1 gene (vitamin K epoxide reductase complex, subunit 1) is located on chromosome 16p11.2.
Vitamin K is essential for blood clotting but must be enzymatically activated.
This enzymatically activated form of vitamin K is a reduced form required for the carboxylation of glutamic acid residues in some blood-clotting proteins.
The product of this gene encodes the enzyme that is responsible for reducing vitamin K 2,3-epoxide to the enzymatically activated form.
Fatal bleeding can be caused by vitamin K deficiency and by the vitamin K antagonist warfarin, and it is the product of this gene that is sensitive to warfarin.
In humans, mutations in this gene can be associated with deficiencies in vitamin-K-dependent clotting factors and, in humans and rats, with warfarin resistance.
Two pseudogenes have been identified on chromosome 1 and the X chromosome.
Two alternatively spliced transcripts encoding different isoforms have been described.
Exposure through chocolate, candies and pastries.
All cacao and chocolate products are derived from the seed of the Theobroma cacao fruit.
The fermented, dried and roasted seeds are ground to make chocolate powder.
The powder is used for drinks and confections, and also to make medicines more palatable.
Cacao butter is used in making confections.
Substitutes for the butter used in chocolate-flavored products are often derived from palm kernel oil, soy, corn and cotton-seed.
Anecdotal evidence suggests that cacao may induce symptoms of food allergy in sensitised individuals.
Specific IgE antibodies have been found in patients with symptoms such as bronchial asthma and allergic rhinitis after different food intake, of which chocolate was one such food.
Carbamoyl phosphate synthetase is an enzyme that catalyzes a reaction that produces carbamoyl phosphate.
This enzyme catalyzes the reaction of ATP and bicarbonate to produce carbonyl phosphate and ADP.
Carbonyl phosphate reacts with ammonia to give carbamate.
In turn, carbamate reacts with a second ATP to give carbamoyl phosphate plus ADP.
There are three different forms that serve very different functions: Carbamoyl phosphate synthetase I (mitochondria, urea cycle); Carbamoyl phosphate synthetase II (cytosol, pyrimidine metabolism); Carbamoyl phosphate synthetase III (found in fish).
Beta-type platelet-derived growth factor receptor is a protein that in humans is encoded by the PDGFRB gene.
An oxidoreductase that catalyzes the conversion of hydrogen peroxide to water and oxygen.
It is present in many animal cells.
A deficiency of this enzyme results in ACATALASIA. .
A potent local anesthetic of the ester type used for surface and spinal anesthesia.
While allergic reactions are very rare, IgE-mediated adverse reactions have been reported.
Purkinje cell cytoplasmic-Tr (PCA-Tr) antibodies are associated with Hodgkin's lymphoma.
The clinical presentation that corresponds with PCA-Tr antibodies includes paraneoplastic cerebellar degeneration (PCD) and limbic encephalopathy (LE).
PCD and LE are types of paraneoplastic neurological syndrome (PNS), an autoimmune disorder that is manifested by progressive neurological syndromes of any combination of the central, peripheral and autonomic nervous systems.
The antibodies that attack the neural tissue develop in response to tumor cells.
The neurological symptoms include encephalitis, autonomic failure, peripheral neuropathy, cerebellar ataxia, visual complaints and more.
The neoplasm may or may not be detectable using conventional imaging modalities.
Since PNS can be associated with multiple antibodies, testing usually includes a panel of PNS antibodies.
In addition, the different PNS antibodies are associated with certain cancers so the antibody pattern can assist in identifying the specific tumor if it was previously undiagnosed.
Pholedrine (Paredrinol, Pulsotyl, Veritol), also known as 4-hydroxy-N-methylamphetamine (4-HMA), is a drug that stimulates the sympathetic nervous system.
It is administered as a topical eye drop form for the purpose of dilating the pupil.
It can be used to diagnose Horner's syndrome.
Ultrasound is routinely used to assess gestational age, fetal weight, and weight percentile.
The weight growth percentile is a comparison of the weight of the fetus to fetuses of the same gestational period in the general population.
An estimated fetal weight determined by intra-uterine ultrasound that is below the 10th percentile is considered to be growth-restricted (IUGR).
The coenzyme form of Vitamin B1 present in many animal tissues.
It is a required intermediate in the PYRUVATE DEHYDROGENASE COMPLEX and the KETOGLUTARATE DEHYDROGENASE COMPLEX.
Codeine is a plant alkaloid of opium that relieves acute or chronic pain and suppresses cough.
Codeine is extensively prescribed throughout the world and is frequently combined with non-opiate drugs including acetaminophen and aspirin.
Codeine is a tenth as potent as morphine and is considered its prodrug.
A small portion of codeine is metabolized by the enzyme CYP2D6 to morphine which is responsible for the analgesic affect of codeine.
Variability of the activity of CYP2D6 based on the patient's genotype can influence the ability of codeine to relieve pain.(Tietz Fundamentals of Clinical Chemistry and Molecular Diagnostics, Seventh Edition; Carl A. Burtis; David E. Bruns, p580)
Diazinon is a colorless, odorless oil and cholinesterase inhibitor.
It is used as a pesticide, but also manifests apoptotic and antibiotic functions.
In former times, diazinon was used in household and garden application to eradicate flies, fleas, and cockroaches.
Currently, it is used to exterminate sucking and leaf eating insects in soil, on ornamental plants, fruit, and vegetables.
Diazinon is toxic if it is inhaled, ingested, or absorbed through the skin.
Symptoms of exposure to diazinon can lead to eye irritation, blurred vision, headache, dizziness, confusion, lassitude, convulsions, dyspnea, excessive salivation, sweating, abdominal cramps, nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, and unconsciousness.
Diazinon is a suspected carcinogen and teratogen.
It is dangerously toxic to aquatic wildlife and to the aquatic environment.
Poisonous gases are produced when diazinon is heated.
A plant species of the genus Chenopodium known for toxicity to intestinal worms and other simple organisms.
A 21-carbon steroid derived from cholesterol and located in steroid hormone-producing tissues.
Pregnenolone is the precursor to gonadal steroid hormones and the adrenal corticosteroids.
Neutrophil-associated antibodies may cause neutropenia in various autoimmune disorders including Felty's syndrome, SLE and drug-induced neutropenia.
Febrile transfusion reactions and isoimmune neonatal neutropenia may also be caused by antibodies to neutrophil-specific antigens or HLA antigens.
A selective adrenergic alpha-1 antagonist used in the treatment of heart failure, hypertension, pheochromocytoma, Raynaud's syndrome, prostatic hypertrophy, and urinary retention.
Beta-N-acetylhexosaminidase is also known as hexosaminidase and has two forms, A and B. Hexosaminidase B is used to screen for Tay-Sachs disease.
Oaks, making up the genus Quercus, are abundant hardy trees of deciduous forests in North America, Europe, and Asia.
Oaks are generally classified into 1 of 2 types, White or Red.
Among species, the White oak (Quercus alba) is the most common.
Oak pollen is a major cause of allergic rhinitis and asthma
The FLCN gene (folliculin) is located on chromosome 17p11.2.
This gene is located within the Smith-Magenis syndrome region on chromosome 17.
Mutations in this gene are associated with Birt-Hogg-Dube syndrome, which is characterized by fibrofolliculomas, renal tumors, lung cysts, and pneumothorax.
Alternative splicing of this gene results in two transcript variants encoding different isoforms.
Hymenoclea salsola is a flowering plant in the daisy family known by several common names, including white burrobrush, cheesebush, and desert pearl.
It is native to the southwestern United States and northern Mexico, where it is a common plant of the local deserts, where it thrives on sandy soil, alkaline environments, and disturbed sites.
A species in the group RETICULOENDOTHELIOSIS VIRUSES, AVIAN of the genus GAMMARETROVIRUS that causes a chronic neoplastic and a more acute immunosuppressive disease in fowl.
Fibroblast growth factor 21 (FGF21) is a member of the fibroblast growth factor family of proteins, which are involved in physiologic processes including cell growth and differentiation, and embryonic development.
FGF21 is involved in energy regulation and has been associated with weight loss and decreased triglyceride accumulation in the liver.
In humans, fructose ingestion has been associated with an increase in circulating FGF21, and obesity may lead to FGF21 resistance.
In contrast, in animal studies, increased levels of FGF21 have been found with fasting and ketogenic diets.
The N-terminus of FGF21 binds to the FGF receptor and the C-terminus binds to a co-receptor; therefore, the intact form of FGF21 must be present for FGF receptor activation because binding at both sites is required.
The Apple is the pomaceous fruit of the Apple tree, species Malus domestica in the Rosaceae (Rose) family.
It is among the most widely cultivated tree fruits.
The tree is small and deciduous, reaching 5 to 12 metres tall, with a broad, often densely twiggy crown.
The leaves are alternately arranged simple ovals 5 to 12 cm long and 3 to 6 cm broad on a 2 to 5 cm petiole with an acute tip, serrated margin and a slightly downy underside.
Flowers are produced in spring simultaneously with the budding of the leaves.
The flowers are white with a pink tinge that gradually fades, 5-petaled, and 2.5 to 3.5 cm in diameter.
The fruit matures in autumn and is typically 5 to 9 cm in diameter.
The center of the fruit contains 5 carpels arranged in a 5-point star, each carpel containing 1 to 3 seeds.
Allergy to Apple may frequently induce symptoms of food allergy in sensitised individuals, in particular oral allergy syndrome Itching, tingling and other mild reactions on the oropharyngeal mucosa are the most common complaints after eating raw Apples, and angioedema, urticaria and shock are less common.
Other symptoms may include rhinoconjunctivitis, asthma, laryngeal oedema, abdominal effects, pruritis and hand dermatitis.
A serine endopeptidase secreted by the pancreas as its zymogen, CHYMOTRYPSINOGEN and carried in the pancreatic juice to the duodenum where it is activated by TRYPSIN.
It selectively cleaves aromatic amino acids on the carboxyl side.
Two small peptide chains removed from the N-terminal segment of the beta chains of fibrinogen by the action of thrombin.
Each peptide chain contains 20 amino acid residues.
The removal of fibrinopeptides B is not required for coagulation.
Inhibins are heterodimeric glycoprotein hormones secreted by the granulosa cells of the ovary in females and the Sertoli cells in the male testis.
Hexamethylene diisocyanate (HDI) is an organic compound in the class known as isocyanates.
More specifically, it is an aliphatic diisocyanate.
It is produced in relatively small quantities, accounting for (with isophorone diisocyanate) only 3.4% of the global diisocyanate market in the year 2000.
Aliphatic diisocyanates are used in special applications, such as enamel coatings which are resistant to abrasion and degradation from ultraviolet light.
These properties are particularly desirable in, for instance, the exterior paint applied to aircraft.
Tryptophan is an amino acid needed for normal growth in infants and for nitrogen balance in adults.
It is an essential amino acid, which means your body cannot produce it; you must get it from your diet.
The body uses tryptophan to help make niacin and serotonin.
Serotonin is thought to produce healthy sleep and a stable mood.
In order for tryptophan in the diet to be changed into niacin, the body needs to have enough: iron, riboflavin, and vitamin B6.
High tryptophan foods include nuts, seeds, tofu, cheese, red meat, chicken, turkey, fish, oats, beans, lentils, and eggs.
The GRN gene (granulin) is located on chromosome 17q21.32.
Granulins are a family of secreted, glycosylated peptides that are cleaved from a single precursor protein with 7.5 repeats of a highly conserved 12-cysteine granulin/epithelin motif.
The 88 kDa precursor protein, progranulin, is also called proepithelin and PC cell-derived growth factor.
Cleavage of the signal peptide produces mature granulin which can be further cleaved into a variety of active, 6 kDa peptides.
These smaller cleavage products are named granulin A, granulin B, granulin C, etc. Epithelins 1 and 2 are synonymous with granulins A and B, respectively.
Both the peptides and intact granulin protein regulate cell growth.
However, different members of the granulin protein family may act as inhibitors, stimulators, or have dual actions on cell growth.
Granulin family members are important in normal development, wound healing, and tumorigenesis.
Distance from superior Stomion to Subnasale
Parasite of rats and snails that can cause eosinophilic infiltration of the intestinal wall in humans
Cultivated Oat (Avena sativa) g14 must be differentiated from False Oat grass (Arrhenatherum elatius) Rg204 and Oats (Avena sativa) f7, the food.
A grass species producing pollen, which often induces hayfever, asthma and conjunctivitis in sensitised individuals.
Rouleaux (singular rouleau) are stacks of red blood cells (RBCs) which form because of the unique discoid shape of RBCs in vertebrates.
The flat surface of the discoid RBCs provides a large surface area that allows the cells to stick to each other, thus forming rouleaux.
Rouleaux occurs when the plasma protein concentration is high, leading to increased erythrocyte sedimentation rate.
The presence of rouleaux does not always indicate the presence of a disease.
Conditions which cause rouleaux formation include infections, inflammatory and connective tissue disorders, and cancers.
It also occurs in diabetes mellitus and is one of the causes leading to microvascular occlusions in diabetic retinopathy.
The extent of progressive sperm motility is related to pregnancy rates.
As an assessment of sperm motility, 100 spermatozoa are counted and given a grade for progressive motility of 1,2,3,or 4, with 1 being the slowest and 4 the fastest.
Grade sperm 1 are sluggish and make little forward progress.
Grade 2 sperm move forward but are very slow or do not move in a straight line.
The result is the percentage of the combined grades 1 and 2 (lowest to mid-motility).
The total combined percent of grade 1 and 2 sperm should be less than 58% to be considered in range.
Glucose 6-Phosphate Dehydrogenase (G6PD) deficiency causes hemolytic anemia following the use of some drugs, bacterial or viral infections, or metabolic disorder such as acidosis.
Three G6PD variants occur frequently and have clinical implications in different ethnic groups.
Heinz bodies may appear in peripheral red blood cells when G6PD-mediated hemolysis occurs.
Younger red cells and reticulocytes contain more G6PD and may cause normal values if blood is collected following a hemolytic crisis.
Synovial fluid is a viscous, yellow-brown liquid found in small amounts in joints, gives shape to eyeballs and is found in connective tissue.
In joints, high levels of hyaluronic acid (HA) in synovial fluid help maintain normal fluid viscosity and joint integrity.
In osteoarthritis, the synovial fluid viscosity and elasticity are both decreased.
Viscosupplementation via injection has been used and is still being researched to determine its effectiveness in osteoarthritis of the knee.
Injections of two milligrams of viscosupplement containing hyaluronic acid by 20 gauge 1.5 inch needles weekly for three weeks may increase synovial fluid viscosity and reduce inflammation and pain for about three months.
The matrix protein gene of influenza virus A encodes two proteins: a matrix protein (M1) and an ion channel protein (M2).
M1 plays a critical role in virus structure and replication by building connections between the viral lipid membrane and ribonucleoprotein (RNP) core.
M1 also binds to RNPs in the nucleus, inhibiting viral transcription.
The ion channel (M2) protein spans the lipid bilayer.
The HPRT1 gene (hypoxanthine phosphoribosyltransferase 1) is located on chromosome Xq26.1.
The protein encoded by this gene is a transferase, which catalyzes conversion of hypoxanthine to inosine monophosphate and guanine to guanosine monophosphate via transfer of the 5-phosphoribosyl group from 5-phosphoribosyl 1-pyrophosphate.
This enzyme plays a central role in the generation of purine nucleotides through the purine salvage pathway.
Mutations in this gene result in Lesch-Nyhan syndrome or gout.
A cyclohexylamido analog of PENICILLANIC ACID.
CD33 is a transmembrane receptor expressed on cells of monocytic/myeloid lineage.
It binds sialic acids, therefore is a member of the SIGLEC family of lectins.
The extracellular portion of this receptor contains two immunoglobulin domains (one IgV and one IgC2 domain), placing CD33 within the immunoglobulin superfamily.
The intracellular portion of CD33 contains immunoreceptor tyrosine-based inhibitory motifs (ITIMs) that are implicated in inhibition of cellular activity.
CD33 is the target of gemtuzumab ozogamicin, a monoclonal antibody-based treated for acute myeloid leukea.
The PANK2 gene (pantothenate kinase 2) is located on chromosome 20p13.
This gene encodes a protein belonging to the pantothenate kinase family and is the only member of that family to be expressed in mitochondria.
Pantothenate kinase is a key regulatory enzyme in the biosynthesis of coenzyme A (CoA) in bacteria and mammalian cells.
It catalyzes the first committed step in the universal biosynthetic pathway leading to CoA and is itself subject to regulation through feedback inhibition by acyl CoA species.
Mutations in this gene are associated with HARP syndrome and pantothenate kinase-associated neurodegeneration (PKAN), formerly Hallervorden-Spatz syndrome.
Alternative splicing, involving the use of alternate first exons, results in multiple transcripts encoding different isoforms.
Cysteic acid is a crystalline amino acid formed in the oxidation of cysteine; it is a precursor of taurine.
A broad-spectrum antibiotic derived from kanamycin.
It is reno- and oto-toxic like the other aminoglycoside antibiotics.
No longer used widely but when used, serum levels will often be monitored.
Interferon beta-1b (tradenames Betaferon, Betaseron (North America), and Extavia) is a drug in the interferon family used to treat the relapsing-remitting and secondary-progressive forms of multiple sclerosis.
It is believed that interferon-beta based drugs achieve their beneficial effect on MS progress via their anti-inflammatory properties.
Studies have also determined that interferon-beta improves the integrity of the blood-brain barrier (BBB)-which generally breaks down in MS patients, allowing increasing amounts of undesirable substances to reach the brain.
This strengthening of the BBB may be a contributing factor to interferon-beta's beneficial effects.
These studies were carried out in vitro, so it does not necessarily mean it works the same in people.
Patients taking Interferon beta-1b may develop neutralizing antibodies to the medication.
Closely related is interferon beta-1a, also indicated for MS, and with a very similar drug profile.
Villous lymphocytes circulating in the peripheral blood are a characteristic finding in splenic marginal-zone lymphoma, a rare disorder comprising less than 1% of lymphoid neoplasms.
Villous lymphocytes are characterized by polar cytoplasmic projections, or villi, which sometimes cause them to be mistaken for hairy cells (although hairy cell projections are not polar).
Bedaquiline (trade name Sirturo) is a diarylquinoline anti-tuberculosis drug.
When it was approved by the U.S. FDA in 2012, it was the first time in 40 years that a drug with a different mechanism of action compared to the existing TB treatments had been approved, and it is specifically approved to treat adults with pulmonary multi-drug resistant tuberculosis (MDR TB) and extensively drug resistant tuberculosis (XDR TB).
Badaquiline should only be used when an effective treatment regimen cannot otherwise be provided.
The most common side effects of bedaquiline in studies were nausea, joint and chest pain, and headache, however the drug also has a black-box warning for life-threatening arrhythmias, as it may induce long QT syndrome by blocking the hERG channel.
Amphiphysin is a protein associated with the cytoplasmic surface of synaptic vesicles and is encoded by the AMPH gene.
Patients with stiff man syndrome and breast cancer can be positive with autoantibodies against the amphiphysin protein.
Common Hazel (Corylus avellana) Cor a 9 is purified from a hazelnut extract.
Sensitization to Cor a 9 has been reported to be associated with severe hazelnut allergy in children and adults.
Tilia cordata (Small-leaved Lime, occasionally Small-leaved Linden) is a species of Tilia native to much of Europe and western Asia, north to southern Great Britain (north to about Durham), central Scandinavia, east to central Russia, and south to central Spain, Italy, Bulgaria, Turkey, and the Caucasus.
The POU3F4 gene (POU class 3 homeobox 4) is located on chromosome Xq21.1.
This gene encodes a member of the POU-III class of neural transcription factors.
This family member plays a role in inner ear development.
The protein is thought to be involved in the mediation of epigenetic signals which induce striatal neuron-precursor differentiation.
Mutations in this gene are associated with X chromosome-linked nonsyndromic mixed deafness.
Tetrahydrofolic acid, or tetrahydrofolate, is a folic acid derivative.
It is produced from dihydrofolic acid by dihydrofolate reductase.
This reaction is inhibited by methotrexate.
It is converted into 5,10-methylenetetrahydrofolate by serine hydroxymethyltransferase.
The PHEX gene (phosphate regulating endopeptidase homolog, X-linked) is located on chromosome Xp22.2-p22.1.
The protein encoded by this gene is a transmembrane endopeptidase that belongs to the type II integral membrane zinc-dependent endopeptidase family.
The protein is thought to be involved in bone and dentin mineralization and renal phosphate reabsorption.
Mutations in this gene cause X-linked hypophosphatemic rickets.
Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants.
The ALPL gene (alkaline phosphatase, liver/bone/kidney) is located on chromosome 1p36.12.
There are at least four distinct but related alkaline phosphatases: intestinal, placental, placental-like, and liver/bone/kidney (tissue non-specific).
The first three are located together on chromosome 2, while the tissue non-specific form is located on chromosome 1.
The product of this gene is a membrane bound glycosylated enzyme that is not expressed in any particular tissue and is, therefore, referred to as the tissue-nonspecific form of the enzyme.
The exact physiological function of the alkaline phosphatases is not known.
A proposed function of this form of the enzyme is matrix mineralization; however, mice that lack a functional form of this enzyme show normal skeletal development.
This enzyme has been linked directly to hypophosphatasia, a disorder that is characterized by hypercalcemia and includes skeletal defects.
The character of this disorder can vary, however, depending on the specific mutation since this determines age of onset and severity of symptoms.
Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been described.
Ergopeptine (or ergopeptide) alkaloids, including ergovaline, ergosine, ergotamine, ergocornine, ergocryptine, and ergocristine, are produced from the ergot fungi of the genus Claviceps.
Ergot fungi grow on rye and other cereal grains and are known to cause ergotism (also known as ergotoxicosis, ergot poisoning and Saint Anthony's Fire) in humans and animals who ingest the contaminated grains.
Patients with ergotism present with convulsive and gangrenous symptoms.
The gangrenous symptoms are due to vasoconstriction induced by the alkaloids of the fungus.
Marburg virus or simply Marburg is the common name for the genus of viruses Marburgvirus, which contains one species, Lake Victoria marburgvirus.
The virus causes the disease Marburg Hemorrhagic Fever (MHF), also referred to as Marburg Virus Disease, and previously also known as green monkey disease due to its primate origin.
Marburg originated in Central and East Africa, and infects both human and nonhuman primates.
The Marburg Virus is in the same taxonomic family as Ebola, and both are identical structurally although they elicit different antibodies.
TAFI (Thrombin Activatable Fibrinolysis Inhibitor) is a glycoprotein of a molecular weight of approximately 60,000 daltons and it belongs to the metalloprotease family, synthesized in the liver, and circulates in blood as a proenzyme without biological activity.
TAFI is also called procarboxypeptidase U (CPU), procarboxypeptidase R (CPR), and plasma procarboxypeptidase B (CPB), and provides an essential link between fibrinolysis and coagulation cascade.
Activated TAFI protects the fibrin clot against lysis.
Defects in thrombin generation directly impact the protection of clots against lysis, thus defects in activation of TAFI may add to the severity of bleeding disorders.
On the other hand, an increased activation of TAFI due to an increased rate of thrombin generation, may lead to thrombotic disorders.
TAFI may also have an important function in the regulation of inflammation, wound healing and blood pressure.
Elevated TAFI levels may form a mild risk factor for venous thrombosis.
The second DNA index peak
Ropivacaine is a local anaesthetic drug belonging to the amino amide group.
The name ropivacaine refers to both the racemate and the marketed S-enantiomer.
Ropivacaine hydrochloride is commonly marketed under the trade name Naropin.
Dimethyl acetals (DMAs), including DMA 16:0 (1,1-Dimethoxyhexadecane), DMA 18:0 (1,1-Dimethoxyoctadecane), and DMA 18:1 (1,1-dimethoxy-(9Z)octadecene), are indirect markers for plasmalogens, which play a critical role in oxidative protection, and cholesterol homeostasis.
DMA levels may be measured in more stable specimens, such as cultured fibroblasts and red blood cells, to diagnosis defects in plasmalogen synthesis, including retinitis pigmentosa (RP), rhizomelic chondrodysplasia punctata and Zellweger disease spectrum.
al. (1995) reported that dominant, recessive, and isolated forms of RP were found to have higher ratios of DMA 16:0/C16:0, DMA 18:0/C18:0 and DMA 18:1n9/C18:1n9 compared to controls.
For X-linked RP, only the DMA 18:1n9/C18:1n9 ratio was significantly higher than in controls.
Methods such as gas chromatography with flame detection of dimethyl acetals may be used for identification and quantification of DMAs.
Acid Citrate Dextrose Solution (sometimes called Anticoagulant Citrate Dextrose Solution) is a solution of citric acid, sodium citrate and dextrose in water.
It is mainly used as an anticoagulant to preserve blood, it is also used during procedures such as plasmapheresis instead of heparin.
Two different solutions (Solution A and B) are defined by the United States Pharmacopeia.
Anti-PCA-2 (purkinje cell cytoplasmic antibody type 2) autoantibodies are important markers of neurological autoimmunity related to cancer.
PCA-2 binds to cerebellar Purkinje somata and dendrites, neurons in internal granular layer and dentate nucleus, and neuronal elements in gut and kidney.
Patients present with mixed subacute neurological diorders, including brainstem or limbic encephalitis, cerebellar ataxia, Lambert-Eaton myasthenic syndrome, and autonomic and motor neuropathy.
Patients with symptoms of such disorders, especially those with known risk factors for cancer, will undergo testing for paraneoplastic antibodies, including PCA-2.
Testing is also performed to monitor the immune response of seropositive patients in the course of cancer therapy.
Rape is an annual plant similar to Turnip and Rutabaga.
It is thought that Brassica napus originated from a hybridisation between the Turnip (B. rapa) and Kale (B. oleracea acephala).
Rape originated in northern Europe and was cultivated in the Mediterranean area, but is now grown throughout the world.
Rape seed pollen (and related irritants) can induce asthma, allergic rhinitis and allergic conjunctivitis.
It is still unclear whether Rape pollen is a common cause of allergic symptoms, or whether volatile organic compounds from Rape are more frequently responsible for these symptoms.
Dermatophagoides pteronyssinus is one of thirteen species of dust mites that are found in temperate climates worldwide, and is a major source of mite allergen.
The three most common dust mites include Dermatophagoides farinae, Dermatophagoides pteronyssinus and Euroglyphus maynei.
Dust mites feed on skin scales and other organic debris.
Their feces and bodies are the source of many of the allergens that affect humans.
House dust mite allergens are divided into 13 groups that are based on their biochemical structure, sequence homology, and molecular weight.
Each allergen is designated by the first three letters of the genus of house mite with which it is associated, then the first letter of the species name, and finally a number that indicates the order in which the allergen was isolated.
Group 1 allergens are glycoproteins that originally lined the intestinal tract of the mite and possess cysteine protease activity.
The epitope Der p 1 increases allergenicity by its ability to split both the CD23 IgE receptor found on the membrane of human B cells, and the CD25 subunit of the T-cell IL-2 receptor.
A MEPERIDINE congener used as an antidiarrheal, usually in combination with atropine.
At high doses, it acts like morphine.
Its unesterified metabolite difenoxin has similar properties and is used similarly.
It has little or no analgesic activity.
Heteropolysaccharides which contain an N-acetylated hexosamine in a characteristic repeating disaccharide unit.
The repeating structure of each disaccharide involves alternate 1,4- and 1,3-linkages consisting of either N-acetylglucosamine or N-acetylgalactosamine.
N-acetyl-L-tyrosine (NAT) is an acetylated derivative of the amino acid L-tyrosine.
As a supplement, NAT is commonly used in place of tyrosine, which is less stable and less soluble in water.
It is used as a protein supplement to treat phenylketonuria (PKU).
NAT is also used for other conditions such as depression, attention deficit disorder (ADD), attention deficit-hyperactivity disorder (ADHD), narcolepsy, and improving alertness following sleep deprivation.
Any of various animals that constitute the family Suidae and comprise stout-bodied, short-legged omnivorous mammals with thick skin, usually covered with coarse bristles, a rather long mobile snout, and small tail.
Included are the genera Babyrousa, Phacochoerus (wart hogs), and Sus, the latter containing the domestic pig (see SUS SCROFA).
Hydrastine is a natural alkaloid which was discovered in 1851 by Alfred P. Durand.
By hydrolysis of hydrastine one receives Hydrastinine, which was patented by Bayer as a haemostatic drug during 1910s.
It is naturally present in Hydrastis canadensis (thus the name) and other plants of the ranunculaceae.
Allergy test for allergens within House Dust from Bencard Ltd.
The KRIT1 gene (KRIT1, ankyrin repeat containing) is located on chromosome 7q21.2.
This gene encodes a protein containing four ankyrin repeats, a band 4.1/ezrin/radixin/moesin (FERM) domain, and multiple NPXY sequences.
The encoded protein is localized in the nucleus and cytoplasm.
It binds to integrin cytoplasmic domain-associated protein-1 alpha (ICAP1alpha), and plays a critical role in beta1-integrin-mediated cell proliferation.
It associates with junction proteins and RAS-related protein 1A (Rap1A), which requires the encoded protein for maintaining the integrity of endothelial junctions.
It is also a microtubule-associated protein and may play a role in microtubule targeting.
Mutations in this gene result in cerebral cavernous malformations.
Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants have been found for this gene.
The Escherichia coli (EC) pilus gene FimF41a encodes the F41 fimbria.
The F41 fimbria is one of the virulence factors associated with postweaning diarrhea (PWD) only in swine.
EC is a gram-negative, flagellated, rod-shaped bacterium that is composed of a stable core set of genes, and another more fluid set of genes that includes the virulence genes.
These virulence genes increase the pathogenicity of EC and encode heat-stable and heat-labile enterotoxins, Shiga toxin 2e, and fimbria, including the F41 fimbria.
The virulence genes can be transferred laterally between dividing EC.
E. coli infection in pigs causes post-weaning diarrhea (PWD) which leads to watery diarrhea, dehydration, loss of body weight, and occasionally death.
EC adheres to the small intestine using adhesin factors, and produces one or more exotoxins that induce fluid and electrolyte secretion.
Oxymorphone (Numorphan) or 14-Hydroxydihydromorphinone is a powerful semi-synthetic opioid analgesic derived from morphine; it is 6-8 times more potent.
Clinically, it is administered as its hydrochloride salt via injection, or suppository; typically in dosages of 1 mg (injected) to 5 mg (suppository).
As with other opioids, oxymorphone can cause physical dependency, and may be abused.
A sulfur containing essential amino acid that is important in many body functions.
It is also a chelating agent for heavy metals.
The A Blood Type contains about twenty subgroups, of which A1 and A2 are the most common (over 99%).
A1 makes up about 80% of all A-type blood, with A2 making up the rest.
These two subgroups are interchangeable as far as transfusion is concerned, however complications can sometimes arise in rare cases when typing the blood.
Blood Group A Suptypes, The Owen Foundation.
Th/To are small nuclear ribonucleoproteins located in the nucleoli of cells.
Anti-Th/To antibodies, a type of antinuclear antibodies (ANA), are present in a small subset (2-5%) of patients with with limited cutaneous systemic sclerosis (lSSc).
But they present a higher risk for severe organ involvement and therefore a worse prognosis.
Severe pulmonary fibrosis followed by pulmonary hypertension have been reported.
Lysosomes are organelles containing digestive enzymes (acid hydrolases).
They are found in animal cells, while in plant cells the same roles are performed by the vacuole.
They digest excess or worn-out organelles, food particles, and engulfed viruses or bacteria
The CSTB gene (cystatin B (stefin B)) is located on chromosome 21q22.3.
The cystatin superfamily encompasses proteins that contain multiple cystatin-like sequences.
Some of the members are active cysteine protease inhibitors, while others have lost or perhaps never acquired this inhibitory activity.
There are three inhibitory families in the superfamily, including the type 1 cystatins (stefins), type 2 cystatins and kininogens.
This gene encodes a stefin that functions as an intracellular thiol protease inhibitor.
The protein is able to form a dimer stabilized by noncovalent forces, inhibiting papain and cathepsins l, h and b.
The protein is thought to play a role in protecting against the proteases leaking from lysosomes.
Evidence indicates that mutations in this gene are responsible for the primary defects in patients with progressive myoclonic epilepsy (EPM1).
In chemistry, especially biochemistry, a fatty acid is a carboxylic acid often with a long unbranched aliphatic tail (chain), which is either saturated or unsaturated.
Carboxylic acids as short as butyric acid (4 carbon atoms) are considered to be fatty acids, while fatty acids derived from natural fats and oils may be assumed to have at least 8 carbon atoms, e.g. caprylic acid (octanoic acid).
Most of the natural fatty acids have an even number of carbon atoms, because their biosynthesis involves acetyl-CoA, a coenzyme carrying a two-carbon-atom group.
Industrially, fatty acids are produced by the hydrolysis of the ester linkages in a fat or biological oil (both of which are triglycerides), with the removal of glycerol.
The patient was on oxygen upon arrival to the hospital.
Jk3 is one of the Kidd blood group antigens.
Antibodies to this antigen is found in Jka-b- individuals, and may be a cause of mild hemolytic disease of the newborn.
Plasma-cell chromosomal alterations determine clinical presentation, treatment response, and outcomes in patients with multiple myeloma, a plasma-cell cancer.
A plasma cell proliferation panel characterizing these alterations is used to develop a treatment strategy and determine prognosis.
Tryptase is a neutral protease stored in secretory granules of mast cells
Cocklebur is native to Europe, Asia, southern Canada, and most of the United States, Mexico and Central America, but is now found worldwide.
Anecdotal evidence suggests that asthma, allergic rhinitis and allergic conjunctivitis are common following exposure to pollen from Cocklebur; however, few specific studies have been reported to date.
Thymidine synthase is the enzyme that catalyzes the methylation of deoxyuridine monophosphate (dUMP) to deoxythymidine monophosphate (dTMP) using the methyl donor 5,10-methylenetetrahydrofolate (CH2THF) as a cofactor.
dTMP is critical for DNA repair and replication.
Thymidine synthase has become the target for drugs used in the treatment of some cancers including the drug 5-fluorouracil (5-FU).
The active metabolite of 5-FU combines with the nucleotide binding site of TS which prevents dUMP from being able to bind with TS.
The decreased amount of dUMP leads to decreased cell replication.
Studies have shown that the gene amplification of TS in the tumor cells correlate to resistance to 5-FU.
Biopsies of the skin are done in order to remove skin lesions and determine the specific diagnosis.
Surgical margins are the boundaries of the excised specimen, and in the case of a skin biopsy, the deep margin is the one furthest away from the skin surface.
A margin is considered 'positive' if it contains neoplastic cells and indicates that additional treatment may be needed besides the excision.
Deeper excisions are more invasive but are associated with diminished chances for the tumor's reoccurrence.
Biapenem (INN) is a carbapenem antibiotic.
It has in vitro activity against anaerobes.
Prototheca is an opportunistic pathogen that is a nonphotosynthetic chlorophyte (green alga) readily isolated in fungal culture.
Human skin and bursal infections can be caused by at least two species of prototheca (Prototheca wickerhamii and Prototheca zopfii).
Diseseminated infections occur in immunocompromised hosts.
It also causes skin infections in dogs and mastistis in cows.
It can be treated with the typical systemic antifungal drugs
A central nervous system stimulant and sympathomimetic with actions and uses similar to those of DEXTROAMPHETAMINE.
It has been used most frequently in the treatment of obesity.
The HSD17B4 gene (hydroxysteroid (17-beta) dehydrogenase 4) is located on chromosome 5q21.
The protein encoded by this gene is a bifunctional enzyme that is involved in the peroxisomal beta-oxidation pathway for fatty acids.
It also acts as a catalyst for the formation of 3-ketoacyl-CoA intermediates from both straight-chain and 2-methyl-branched-chain fatty acids.
Defects in this gene that affect the peroxisomal fatty acid beta-oxidation activity are a cause of D-bifunctional protein deficiency (DBPD).
An apparent pseudogene of this gene is present on chromosome 8.
Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms have been found for this gene.
The Reese-Ellsworth extraocular retinoblastoma staging system applies to cancer that has spread outside of the eye, either to the tissues around the eye or to the central nervous system (CNS), bone marrow, or lymph nodes.
This staging system is based on how much cancer remains after surgery to remove the tumor and whether the cancer has spread.
Details of each stage in the extraocular staging system are as follows: Stage 0 (zero) - the cancer is in the eye (called intraocular) and has not spread outside of the eye.
Most retinoblastoma cases are discovered in Stage 0 and should be classified based on the International Classification for Intraocular Retinoblastoma (ICRB).
Doctors recommend conservative treatment for this stage with no additional adjuvant therapy, meaning no additional treatment after surgery.
Stage I - the eye has already been removed and there is some microscopic spread to the optic nerve.
These patients need adjuvant chemotherapy after surgery.
Stage II - the tumor has spread to the optic nerve or the sclera, which is the white part of the eye.
Patients with this stage need adjuvant chemotherapy and possibly radiation therapy.
Stage III - the cancer has spread to the lymph nodes or the bony cavity that surrounds the eyeball.
Stage III is divided into two substages called stage IIIa and stage IIIb, depending on where the tumor has spread.
The treatment for this stage involves both chemotherapy and radiation therapy.
Stage IV - the tumor has spread to distant areas of the body outside the eye, via the lymphatic system and blood vessels.
Stage IV is divided into substages called IVa and IVb, and IVb is further divided into IVb1, IVb2, and IVb3, depending on the location of the spread.
This stage of extraocular retinoblastoma is treated with high-dose chemotherapy followed by stem cell rescue.
Radiation therapy may also be used in addition to high-dose chemotherapy for some patients with stage IV disease.
Raltegravir (MK-0518, brand name Isentress) is an antiretroviral drug used to treat HIV infection.
It is the first of a new class of HIV drugs, the integrase inhibitors.
Lormetazepam (Noctamid®, Ergocalm®, Loramet®, also known as methyllorazepam, is a drug which is a benzodiazepine derivative.
It possesses anxiolytic, anticonvulsant, sedative and skeletal muscle relaxant properties.
Lormetazepam is not approved for sale in the United States or Canada, though it is licensed it the UK as 0.5 and 1mg tablets.
It is the most expensive hypnotic benzodiazepine on the UK market - costing upwards of £15 (trade price) for a 28 day supply of the 1mg variant.
Recently however, prices have stabilised towards the £3 region.
An occupational allergen, which may result in allergy symptoms in sensitised individuals.
Tenebrio molitor is one of the most common pests found in stored grain products.
Thiethylperazine (Torecan) is an antiemetic of the phenothiazine class.
Though it was never licensed or used as an antipsychotic, it may have such effects.
The larger fragment generated from the cleavage of COMPLEMENT C3 by C3 CONVERTASE.
It is a constituent of the ALTERNATIVE PATHWAY C3 CONVERTASE (C3bBb), and COMPLEMENT C5 CONVERTASES in both the classical (C4b2a3b) and the alternative (C3bBb3b) pathway.
C3b participates in IMMUNE ADHERENCE REACTION and enhances PHAGOCYTOSIS.
It can be inactivated (iC3b) or cleaved by various proteases to yield fragments such as COMPLEMENT C3C; COMPLEMENT C3D; C3e; C3f; and C3g.
DNA index (DI), which is associated with DNA ploidy, is a reflection of the average amount of DNA in the tumor cells.
The DI can be measured by flow cytometry or image cytometry, both of which result in a DNA ploidy histogram, where the channel number on the x-axis represents fluorescent intensity or optical density for the two methods, respectively.
All cells with the same quantity of DNA form one peak on the histogram, and with a population of normal cells, the largest peak represents diploid cells in G1 of the cell cycle, and a smaller peak represents cells in G2/M-phase.
When there is a mixed population of normal and tumor cells, two or more G1 peaks will be seen, one for the normal cells and one or more for the tumor cells.
The DI is calculated by dividing the channel number of the tumor cell G1 peak by the channel number of the normal (diploid control) G1 peak.
If the tumor cells are diploid, the DI is 1, and if the cells are aneuploid, the DI is greater than or less than 1.
For example, tetraploid cells have a DI of 2 because they have twice as much DNA content as normal diploid cells, and hypodiploid tumor cells have a DI of <1.
Arginine is a basic amino acid with basic R groups involved in urea synthesis.
It is important in cell division, wound healing, ammonia removal from the body, immune function, and hormone release.
It is increased with arginase deficiency, cystinuria, and lysine intolerance (Information from LOINC partner 1 9/15/06).
A genus of trematode flukes belonging to the family Schistosomatidae.
There are over a dozen species.
These parasites are found in man and other mammals.
Snails are the intermediate hosts.
Recombinant non-glycosylated protein produced in an E. coli strain strain carrying a cloned cDNA encoding Prunus persica allergen Pru p 1.
Keratin, type II cytoskeletal 7 also known as cytokeratin-7 (CK-7) or keratin-7 (K7) or sarcolectin (SCL) is a protein that in humans is encoded by the KRT7 gene.
Keratin 7 is a type II keratin.
It is specifically expressed in the simple epithelia lining the cavities of the internal organs and in the gland ducts and blood vessels.
Because the keratin-7 antigen is found in both healthy and neoplastic cells, antibodies to CK7 can be used in immunohistochemistry to distinguish ovarian and transitional cell carcinomas from colonic and prostate cancers, respectively.
It is commonly used together with CK20 when making such diagnoses.
A species of gram-negative bacteria infecting DOGS, the natural hosts, and causing canine BRUCELLOSIS.
It can also cause a mild infection in humans.
Activated T-cells are characterized by coexpression of CD38 and HLA-DR and may be measured as fractions of CD4+ and CD8+ T-cell populations.
In patients with HIV, activated T-cell levels are directly correlated to viral load and inversely correlated to CD4+ T-cell count.
However, activated CD8+ T-cell levels may be more closely related to viral load, and successful treatment with anti-retroviral therapy with resulting decrease in viral load has been associated with a concomitant decrease in activated CD8+ T-cells.
Likewise, increases in CD4+ T-cell counts have been associated with a decrease in the level of activated CD4+ T-cells.
In addition, co-infection in patients with HIV is also associated with CD4+ T-cell activation but not that of the CD8+ T-cell population.
Red blood cells that are non-dysmorphic have no morphological changes.
A diverse genus of minute freshwater CRUSTACEA, of the suborder CLADOCERA.
They are a major food source for both young and adult freshwater fish.
The SLC17A5 gene (solute carrier family 17 member 5) is located on chromosome 6q13.
This gene encodes a membrane transporter that exports free sialic acids that have been cleaved off of cell surface lipids and proteins from lysosomes.
Mutations in this gene cause sialic acid storage diseases, including infantile sialic acid storage disorder and and Salla disease, an adult form.
Butabarbital (Butisol®) is a prescription sleep aid.
Often deaths occur when patients mix with alcohol for consumption.
Gram-negative bacteria occurring in the lower intestinal tracts of man and other animals.
It is the most common species of anaerobic bacteria isolated from human soft tissue infections.
Folic acid and folate (the anion form) are forms of a water-soluble B vitamin.
These occur naturally in food and can also be taken as supplements.
Folate gets its name from the Latin word folium, leaf.
A purine base and a fundamental unit of ADENINE NUCLEOTIDES.
Tetradecenoylcarnitine is a primary marker for Glutaric acidemia type I and Maternal glutaric acidemia type I.
CD42b marker is found on platelets and megakaryocytes and is associated with AML M7.
It is also reduced in Bernard-Soulier syndrome.
A synthetic hormone with anabolic and androgenic properties.
Case studies have also pointed to anti-Jk^b as being responsible for severe DHTR.
Jk^b can be found in 74% Caucasians, 49% Blacks, and 76% Asians populations.
Beck L, Blood groups and red cell antigens. .
The Adenovirus (AdV) fiber protein gene, whose product facilitates cellular attachment and hemagglutination, can be used to differentiate AdV species A through F in PCR-based assays.
A conserved region of the fiber protein gene in the enteric AdV species F (serotypes 40/41) can be used to detect and identify the virus in various clinical and environmental specimens.
A THEOPHYLLINE derivative with broncho- and vasodilator properties.
It is used in the treatment of asthma, cardiac dyspnea, and bronchitis.
Cresols are organic compounds which are methylphenols.
They are a widely occurring natural and manufactured group of aromatic organic compounds which are categorized as phenols (sometimes called phenolics).
Depending on the temperature, cresols can be solid or liquid because they have melting points not far from room temperature.
Like other types of phenols, they are slowly oxidized by long exposure to air and the impurities often give cresols a yellowish to brownish red tint.
Cresols have an odor characteristic to that of other simple phenols, reminiscent to some of a "coal tar" smell.
The CYBB gene (cytochrome b-245, beta polypeptide) is located on chromosome Xp21.1.
Cytochrome b (-245) is composed of cytochrome b alpha (CYBA) and beta (CYBB) chain.
It has been proposed as a primary component of the microbicidal oxidase system of phagocytes.
CYBB deficiency is one of five described biochemical defects associated with chronic granulomatous disease (CGD).
In this disorder, there is decreased activity of phagocyte NADPH oxidase; neutrophils are able to phagocytize bacteria but cannot kill them in the phagocytic vacuoles.
The cause of the killing defect is an inability to increase the cell's respiration and consequent failure to deliver activated oxygen into the phagocytic vacuole.
There are the two types of vancomycin resistance in enterococci.
The first type is intrinsic resistance.
Isolates of Enterococcus gallinarum and E. casseliflavus/E. flavescens demonstrate an inherent, low-level resistance to vancomycin.
The second type of vancomycin resistance in enterococci is acquired resistance.
Enterococci can become resistant to vancomycin by acquisition of genetic information from another organism.
Most commonly, this resistance is seen in E. faecium and E. faecalis, but also has been recognized in E. raffinosus, E. avium, E. durans, and several other enterococcal species.
Several genes, including vanA, vanB, vanC, vanD, and vanE, contribute to resistance to vancomycin in enterococci.
A muscarinic antagonist that crosses the blood-brain barrier and is used in the treatment of drug-induced extrapyramidal disorders and in parkinsonism.
Autoantibodies to non-muscle myosin heavy chain have been reported in patients with chronic liver diseases, especially in those associated with HCV infection.
The YY1 gene (YY1 transcription factor) is located on chromosome 14q.
YY1 is a ubiquitously distributed transcription factor belonging to the GLI-Kruppel class of zinc finger proteins.
The protein is involved in repressing and activating a diverse number of promoters.
YY1 may direct histone deacetylases and histone acetyltransferases to a promoter in order to activate or repress the promoter, thus implicating histone modification in the function of YY1.
Silver is a naturally-occurring substance that humans are exposed to daily through food, drinking water and air at very low levels.
Workplace exposure can also occur.
Silver can enter the body through the gastrointestinal tract, lungs and skin.
Most of the silver that enters the body is eliminated in the stool, but some may build up in many places in the body.
Argyria is a permanent condition in which long-term silver accumulation causes skin and other tissues to turn grey or blue-grey; however, it is thought to be a cosmetic condition.
In rare cases, exposure to dust containing relatively high levels of silver compounds, such as in certain chemical manufacturing facilities, may cause breathing problems and lung and throat irritation.
Skin contact with silver compounds may also cause mild allergic reactions, such as rash, swelling, and inflammation.
The TFE3 (transcription factor binding to IGHM enhancer 3) gene is located on chromosome X at position p11.23.
This gene encodes a basic helix-loop-helix domain-containing transcription factor that binds MUE3-type E-box sequences in the promoter of genes.
The encoded protein promotes the expression of genes downstream of transforming growth factor beta (TGF-beta) signaling.
This gene may be involved in chromosomal translocations in renal cell carcinomas and other cancers, resulting in the production of fusion proteins.
Translocation partners include PRCC (papillary renal cell carcinoma), NONO (non-POU domain containing, octamer-binding), and ASPSCR1 (alveolar soft part sarcoma chromosome region, candidate 1), among other genes.
Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants.
Citrobacter is a genus of Gram-negative bacteria in the Enterobacteriaceae family and commonly found in soil, water and wastewater.
They can also be found in the human intestine.
They are rarely the source of illnesses, except for infections of the urinary tract, infant meningitis and sepsis.
C. freundii strains have inducible ampC genes encoding resistance to ampicillin and first-generation cephalosporins.
In addition, isolates of Citrobacter may be resistant to many other antibiotics as a result of resistance genes.
Yellow-brown needles in bundles ("sheaves of wheat") or brown spheres, due the ingestion of sulfa drugs.
An aromatized C18 steroid with a 3-hydroxyl group and a 17-ketone, a major mammalian estrogen.
It is converted from androstenedione directly, or from testosterone via estradiol.
In humans, it is produced primarily by the cyclic ovaries, the placenta, and the adipose tissue of men and postmenopausal women.
Free protoporphyrin is non-complexed, non-heme protoporphyrin.
The test is used along with blood lead levels to monitor chronic industrial exposure to lead.
Patients with lead toxicity will also have elevated plasma and urine delta aminolevulinic acid and increased urine coproporphyrin.
Urine porphobilinogen and uroporphyrin may be normal or be slightly increased.
Skin contamination may lead to false increases.
Legionella pneumophila is a thin, pleomorphic, flagellated Gram-negative bacterium of the genus Legionella.
L. pneumophilia is the primary human pathogen in this group and is responsible for legionellosis or Legionnaires' disease.
Differentiated from an ovalocyte by having blunt ends.
Glibenclamide (INN), also known as glyburide (USAN), is an antidiabetic drug in a class of medications known as sulfonylureas, closely related to sulfa drugs
The CTNS gene (cystinosin, lysosomal cystine transporter) is located on chromosome 17p13.
This gene encodes a seven-transmembrane domain protein that functions to transport cystine out of lysosomes.
Its activity is driven by the H+ electrochemical gradient of the lysosomal membrane.
Mutations in this gene cause cystinosis, a lysosomal storage disorder.
Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants.
Veterinary Medicine: Gamithromycin is a semisynthetic macrolide antibiotic used in the treatment and prevention of bovine respiratory disease (BRD) that is administered as a single subcutaneous dose.
The antibiotic inhibits bacteria protein synthesis and is effective against Mannheimia haemolytica, Pasteurella multocida and Histophilus somni bacteria, which are the three most common pathogens found in BRD.
Gamithromycin and similar antibiotics are found in lung tissue at a higher concentration for a longer period of time compared to plasma, which makes them especially effective for respiratory diseases such as BRD.
Methoxyphenamine (ASMI, Euspirol, Orthoxine, Ortodrinex, Proasma), also known as 2-methoxy-N-methylamphetamine (OMMA), is a β-adrenergic receptor agonist of the amphetamine class used as a bronchodilator.
This assay measures both disopyramide and its major metabolite, nordisopyramide, and does not distinguish between them.
The parent drug, disopyramide (trade names Norpace and Rythmodan) is an antiarrhythmic medication used in the treatment of ventricular tachycardia It is a sodium channel blocker and therefore classified as a Class 1a anti-arrhythmic agent.
Disopyramide has a negative inotropic effect on the ventricular myocardium, significantly decreasing the contractility.
Disopyramide also has an anticholinergic effect on the heart which accounts for many adverse side effects.
Disopyramide is available in both oral and intravenous forms, and has a low degree of toxicity.
In enzymology, a triokinase is an enzyme.
Tthe two substrates of this enzyme are ATP and D-glyceraldehyde, whereas its two products are ADP and D-glyceraldehyde 3-phosphate.
This enzyme belongs to the family of transferases, specifically those transferring phosphorus-containing groups (phosphotransferases) with an alcohol group as acceptor.
The systematic name of this enzyme class is ATP:D-glyceraldehyde 3-phosphotransferase.
This enzyme is also called triose kinase.
This enzyme participates in fructose and mannose metabolism.
CD45 marker identifies lymphocytes in flow cytometry.
CD45 markers, along with special beads are used to determine the absolute lymphocyte count by some laboratories.
(Other labs use the total lymphocyte count from the CBC).
Phenylalanine (Phe) is an essential aromatic amino acid.
Phenylalanine is converted to tyrosine, another amino acid needed to make protein and thyroid hormones.
It is also needed to make dopamine, norepinephrine and epinephrine, brain chemicals that influence energy and mental health.
The L-form of Phe is incorporated into proteins, while the D-form acts as a painkiller.
Egg whites, nuts and seeds, and meat and fish are rich sources.
Phenylketonuria (also called PKU), is a rare inherited disorder that causes phenylalanine to build up in the body.
People with PKU need to follow a diet that significantly limits phenylalanine.
A drug, which may result in allergy symptoms in sensitized individuals.
Adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH or corticotropin) is a polypeptide hormone synthesized from pre-opiomelanocortin and secreted from corticotropes in the anterior lobe of the pituitary gland in response to the corticotropin-releasing hormone released by the hypothalamus.
ACHT consists of 39 amino acids.
It stimulates the cortex of the adrenal gland, resulting in the synthesis of corticosteroids: mainly glucocorticoids, but also mineralcorticoids and, to a lesser extent, androgens.
Plasma cells, also called plasma B cells, plasmocytes, and effector B cells, are white blood cells that produce large volumes of antibodies.
They are transported by the blood plasma and the lymphatic system.
Like all blood cells, plasma cells ultimately originate in the bone marrow; however, these cells leave the bone marrow as B cells, before terminal differentiation into plasma cells, which usually happens in lymph nodes.
Tropheryma whipplei, formerly called Tropheryma whippeli, is a gram-positive bacillus that causes Whipple's disease.
Both the organism and disease are named for Dr. George Whipple.
Most people infected by T. whipplei are asymptomatic or have mild symptoms followed by a protective immune response.
However, a small number develop Whipple's disease, which involves multiple organ systems, including the gastrointestinal system, heart and vascular system, central nervous system, and joints.
Symptoms include abdominal pain and diarrhea, weight loss, arthralgias, and fever.
Cardiac involvement includes endocarditis and myocarditis, and neurological manifestations span a wide range, including ataxia, seizures, supranuclear ophthalmoplegia, and delirium.
Molecular assays are used to diagnose T. whipplei in a variety of specimen types, including stool, blood, and tissue.
Targets include the 16S rRNA gene and T. whipplei-specific repetitive DNA sequences.
The chloride ion is formed when the element chlorine picks up one electron to form an anion negatively-charged ion Cl−. The salts of hydrochloric acid contain chloride ions and can also be called chlorides.
Glycopeptide resistance is one mechanism by which Staphylococcus aureus may be resistant to antimicrobial treatment.
Staph that have intermediate and heterogeneous resistance to glycopeptides are called GISA and hGISA, respectively.
The presence of GISA and hGISA strains can be determined based on comparing vancomycin inhibitory concentration (IC) and teicoplanin IC, and once one of these strains is determined to be present, they can be distinguished based on the vancomycin MIC determined in a separate step.
A recurring chromosome aberration resulting in a dicentric chromosome, dic(9;20)(p11~13;q11), occurs in patients with acute lymphocytic leukemia (ALL), specifically B-cell precursor.
Dic(9;20) occurs due to a breakpoint within the PAX5 gene on 9p, which fuses with one of a number of different genes on 20q.
This usually results in loss of 9p and 20q material.
It can occur as part of a complex karyotype or an individual cytogenetic abnormality.
It is known to occur in the presence of the BCR-ABL1, t(9;22)(q34.1;q11), and ETV6-RUNX1, t(12;21)(p13;q22.3), fusion genes.
Relapses after treatment are quite common.
However, post-relapse treatment of many patients is successful.
Achiote (Bixa orellana) is a shrub or small tree from the tropical region of the Americas.
The name derives from the Nahuatl word for the shrub, achiotl.
It is also known as Aploppas, and its original Tupi name urucu.
It is cultivated there and in Southeast Asia, where it was introduced by the Spanish in the 17th century.
It is best known as the source of the natural pigment annatto, produced from the fruit.
The plant bears pink flowers and bright red spiny fruits which contain red seeds.
The fruits dry and harden to brown capsules
Mature male germ cells derive from spermatids.
As spermatids move toward the lumen of the seminiferous tubules, they undergo extensive structural changes including the loss of cytoplasm, condensation of chromatin into the sperm head, formation of the acrosome cap, the sperm midpiece and the sperm tail that provides motility.
Ascariasis is a human disease caused by the parasitic roundworm Ascaris lumbricoides.
Perhaps as many as one quarter of the world's people are infected, and ascariasis is particularly prevalent in tropical regions and in areas of poor hygiene.
Other species of the genus Ascaris are parasitic and can cause disease in domestic animals.
Infection occurs through ingestion of food contaminated with fecal matter containing Ascaris eggs.
The larvae hatch, burrow through the intestine, reach the lungs, and finally migrate up the respiratory tract.
From there they are then reswallowed and mature in the intestine, growing up to 30 cm (12 in.)
in length and anchoring themselves to the intestinal wall.
Infections are usually asymptomatic, especially if the number of worms is small.
They may however be accompanied by inflammation, fever, and diarrhea, and serious problems may develop if the worms migrate to other parts of the body.
A quaternary skeletal muscle relaxant usually used in the form of its bromide, chloride, or iodide.
It is a depolarizing relaxant, acting in about 30 seconds and with a duration of effect averaging three to five minutes.
Succinylcholine is used in surgical, anesthetic, and other procedures in which a brief period of muscle relaxation is called for.
Stearoylcarnitine is a primary marker for Carnitine palmitoyltransferase I deficiency, Carnitine acylcarnitine translocase deficiency, and Carnitine palmitoyltransferase II deficiency.
Secondary marker for Long-chain L-3-Hydroxy dehydrogenase deficiency, Trifunctional protein deficiency, and Carnitine uptake defect.
The CYP21A2 gene (cytochrome P450, family 21, subfamily A, polypeptide 2) is located on chromosome 6p21.3.
This gene encodes a member of the cytochrome P450 superfamily of enzymes.
The cytochrome P450 proteins are monooxygenases which catalyze many reactions involved in drug metabolism and synthesis of cholesterol, steroids and other lipids.
This protein localizes to the endoplasmic reticulum and hydroxylates steroids at the 21 position.
Its activity is required for the synthesis of steroid hormones including cortisol and aldosterone.
Mutations in this gene cause congenital adrenal hyperplasia.
A related pseudogene is located near this gene; gene conversion events involving the functional gene and the pseudogene are thought to account for many cases of steroid 21-hydroxylase deficiency.
Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
Visceral fat (abdominal fat) is located inside the abdominal cavity, packed between the organs (stomach, liver, intestines, kidneys, etc.).
Fat in the lower body, as in thighs and buttocks, is subcutaneous and is not consistently spaced tissue, whereas fat in the abdomen is mostly visceral and semi-fluid.
Visceral fat is composed of several adipose depots, including mesenteric, epididymal white adipose tissue (EWAT), and perirenal depots.
An excess of visceral fat is known as central obesity, or "belly fat", and is linked to type 2 diabetes, insulin resistance, inflammatory diseases, and other obesity-related diseases.
A species of gram-negative bacteria that causes rickettsialpox.
The vector is a mouse mite and the reservoirs are mites and mice.
Caraway (Carum carvi) also known as Meridian Fennel, or Persian Cumin, is a biennial plant in the family Apiaceae, native to western Asia, Europe and Northern Africa.
Mycoplasma genitalium is a bacteria species of Genus Mycoplasma and associated with infections of the genitourinary tract, pelvic inflammatory disease (PID), endometritis, arthritis and cervicitis.
Identification and differentiation is traditionally achieved by serological methods.
Recently, polymerase chain reaction (PCR) is used for rapid detection and differentiation of bacterial species such as M. genitalium.
CD83, a 45 kDa transmembrane glycoprotein of the Ig superfamily.
Expressed on cultured dendritic cells, interdigitating, follicular, and circulating dendritic cells as well as some proliferating lymphocyte of all human cell lines.
Functionally unclear, but can serve as a useful marker for mature human blood dendritic cells.
A peptide hormone of about 27 amino acids from the duodenal mucosa that activates pancreatic secretion and lowers the blood sugar level.
(USAN and the USP Dictionary of Drug Names, 1994, p597)
Wheat weevils (Sitophilus granarius), also known as grain weevils or granary weevils, occur all over the world and are a common pest in many places
The DLD (dihydrolipoamide dehydrogenase) gene is located on chromosome 7q31-q32.
This gene encodes a member of the class-I pyridine nucleotide-disulfide oxidoreductase family.
The encoded protein has been identified as a moonlighting protein based on its ability to perform mechanistically distinct functions.
In homodimeric form, the encoded protein functions as a dehydrogenase and is found in several multi-enzyme complexes that regulate energy metabolism.
However, as a monomer, this protein can function as a protease.
Mutations in this gene have been identified in patients with E3-deficient maple syrup urine disease and lipoamide dehydrogenase deficiency.
Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants.
The SPINK1 gene (serine peptidase inhibitor, Kazal type 1) is located on chromosome 5q32.
The protein encoded by this gene is a trypsin inhibitor, which is secreted from pancreatic acinar cells into pancreatic juice.
It is thought to function in the prevention of trypsin-catalyzed premature activation of zymogens within the pancreas and the pancreatic duct.
Mutations in this gene are associated with hereditary pancreatitis and tropical calcific pancreatitis.
Oranges, with orange-colored peels and juicy fruit in separable quarter-moon-shaped sections, come from an evergreen tree growing to 9 m tall.
Oranges are the most important commercial citrus fruit.
They were cultivated over 3,000 years ago in China.
They now thrive around the world in warm-climate areas including Portugal, Spain, North Africa and the southern United States.
Orange may induce symptoms of food allergy in sensitised individuals.
Symptoms reported included nausea, pruritis, abdominal cramping, abdominal pain, vomiting, diarrhoea, oral itching, angioedema, dyspnoea, bronchospasm, rhinitis, laryngeal oedema, urticaria, hypotension, and anaphylaxis.
Oral allergy syndrome (OAS) is a common symptom.
Orange may also contribute to multifood allergy.
An oral hypoglycemic agent which is rapidly absorbed and completely metabolized.
The amount of fluid output from a drain placed in a neurological site.
Salmonella enterica (formerly Salmonella choleraesuis) is a rod-shaped flagellated, facultative anaerobic, Gram-negative bacterium, and a member of the genus Salmonella.
Most cases of salmonellosis are caused by food infected with S. enterica, which often infects cattle and poultry.
In addition, most of the human pathogenic Salmonella serovars belong to the S. enterica enterica subspecies.
These serogroups include Salmonella Typhi, Salmonella Enteritidis, Salmonella Paratyphi, Salmonella Typhimurium, and Salmonella Choleraesuis.
The serovars can be designated as written in the previous sentence (capitalized and non-italicized following the genus), or as follows: "Salmonella enterica enterica, serovar Typhi.
Trichloroacetic acid (also known as trichloroethanoic acid) is an analogue of acetic acid in which the three hydrogen atoms of the methyl group have all been replaced by chlorine atoms.
Alachlor is an herbicide from the chloroacetanilide family.
Its mode of action is elongase inhibition, and inhibition of geranylgeranyl pyrophosphate (GGPP) cyclisation enzymes, part of the gibberellin pathway.
The 4-carboxyaldehyde form of VITAMIN B 6 which is converted to PYRIDOXAL PHOSPHATE which is a coenzyme for synthesis of amino acids, neurotransmitters (serotonin, norepinephrine), sphingolipids, aminolevulinic acid.
IgM heavy chains with bound lambda light chains.
The standard resting metabolic rate (RMR)), by convention, is a reference baseline oxygen consumption constant of 3.5 mL O2/kg/min and is approximately equivalent to 1 kcal/kg/h or 4.184 kJ/kg/h.
It is used along with the measured, estimated or reported activity (exercise) metabolic rate to calculate the metabolic equivalent of task (MET).
The Pecan is a deciduous tree, usually 23 to 34m tall but sometimes growing to over 50m.
The tree has a rather narrow crown and usually occurs in forests.
Some Pecan trees are over 150 years old.
They have compound leaves with lance-shaped leaflets.
The bark is a pale gray or whitish brown, scaly, and deeply furrowed, and the twigs are hairy.
The trees lose their leaves each year and bear sweet, edible nuts, deep brown in color, that range from 2.5 to 5cm in length.
The Pecan is native to North America.
The range of Pecan covers the warmer temperate zone and subtropical areas.
It is very common in the South and Southeast of the USA, but is also planted far beyond this range.
In the USA, Texas is the largest producer of Pecan nuts, and is second only to Georgia in the production of hybrid (orchard-grown) varieties.
Pecan tree pollen is considered to be highly allergenic, resulting in allergic rhinitis, conjunctivitis and asthma
Porcine Reproductive and Respiratory Syndrome Virus (PRRSV) causes an infection in pigs sometimes known as Blue-Ear Pig Disease.
This economically important pandemic disease causes reproductive failure in breeding stock and respiratory tract illness and has shown differences in virulence, tissue trophism and replication capabilities among strains.
PRRSV has two genotypes - the North American strain (type 2 PRRSv, with the isolate prototype VR2332) and the European strain (type 1 PRRSv, with the isolate prototype "Lelystad").
Both types were discovered in their local regions around 1990 but they now share worldwide distributions.
These two main genotypes differ genetically by approximately 40%.
Within each genotype there is nucleotide divergence of up to 30% (Leung et al., 2010).
The majority of the nucleotides that make up the two are the same but diversity within each genotype is high with a significant geographic pattern for the various types.
The use of sequence information to compare PRRSV isolates is a valuable tool to monitor PRRSV strains both globally and within a farm over time.
It can differentiate between resident and newly introduced viruses as well as between vaccine and field strains.
Bald cypress is a deciduous conifer, growing in very wet, swampy, often submerged soils.
It is native to humid climates where precipitation ranges from about 760 mm to 1630 mm.
It is found from Delaware to south Florida, into Texas and Oklahoma, and north to Indiana.
Planted as an ornamental in Europe, it is hardy into southern Canada.
Anecdotal evidence suggests that asthma and hayfever are possible following exposure to pollen from this tree; however, few specific studies on this have been reported to date
The concentration of the mitochondrial protein frataxin can be used to both diagnose and monitor treatment for patients with Friedreich ataxia (FA).
Decreased frataxin protein levels are diagnostic of FA and can be utilized for monitoring known patients.
FA is an autosomal recessive disease affecting approximately 1:50,000 Caucasians.
The disease is clinically characterized by progressive spasticity, ataxia, dysarthria, absent lower limb reflexes, sensory loss, and scoliosis.
Hypertrophic cardiomyopathy is present in approximately two-thirds of patients with FA and the most frequent cause of premature death.
FA is caused by mutations in the FXN gene encoding frataxin.
Alpha cortol is involved in C21-Steroid hormone metabolism.
A highly effective inhibitor of gastric acid secretion used in the therapy of STOMACH ULCERS and ZOLLINGER-ELLISON SYNDROME.
The drug inhibits the H(+)-K(+)-ATPase (H(+)-K(+)-EXCHANGING ATPASE) in the proton pump of GASTRIC PARIETAL CELLS.
Food allergen mix 70 (fx70, FP70) detects tarragon (f272), lovage (f275), marjoram (f274), and thyme (f273) IgE antibodies.
Testing for IgE antibodies may be used to help diagnose an allergic disease or the cause of an anaphylactic episode in a patient.
Enzyme and fluorescent-based assays, which were preceded by the RAST test (Radio-AllergoSorbent Test), are performed to detect allergen-specific IgE in the patient's serum.
Cefepime is a fourth-generation cephalosporin antibiotic developed in 1994.
It has an extended spectrum of activity against Gram-positive and Gram-negative bacteria.
Cefepime hydrochloride was first introduced in 1994 and is currently marketed under various trade names including Maxipime (Elan Pharma, Maxcef, Cepimax, Cepimex, and Axepim).
Bacterial vaginosis (BV) is the most common cause of vaginal infection.
It is less commonly referred to as vaginal bacteriosis.
It is not considered to be a sexually transmitted infection.
BV is not transmitted through sexual intercourse but is more common in women who are sexually active.
BV is caused by an imbalance of naturally occurring bacterial flora and should not be confused with yeast infection (candidiasis), or infection with Trichomonas vaginalis (trichomoniasis), which are not caused by bacteria.
The measles virus (MeV) is a single-stranded, enveloped RNA virus and a member of the Paramyxoviridae family.
Measles was first discovered to be caused by an infectious agent in 1757 by a Scottish physician.
After becoming a notifiable disease in the United States in 1912, there were roughly 6,000 deaths reported each year in the following ten years due to MeV.
The vaccination against MeV become available in the United States in 1963 which caused a rapid drop in MeV infections.
MeV is highly contagious and is transmitted through infected secretions.
Symptoms of infection include fever, malaise, cough, coryza, and conjunctivitis.
Later, pathognomonic enanthema (Koplik spots) develop and are followed by a maculopapular rash that appears 14 days after exposure to MeV and spreads from the head, down the trunk, and to the lower extremities.
Patients susceptible to serious complications may experience acute encephalitis and subsequent brain damage, fatal respiratory and neurologic complications, or a rare, fatal degenerative disease of the central nervous system characterized by behavioral and intellectual deterioration and seizures that begin 7-10 years after the measles infection.
There are 24 genotypes of MeV recognized by the World Health Organization that are categorized by the nucleotide sequences of their hemagglutinin (H) and nucleoprotein (N) genes.
The region of the N gene that distinguishes between the genotypes is a 450 nucleotide sequence of the carboxyl terminus referred to as N-450.
Sequencing the N-450 region can identify the genotype of the infecting virus.
Because infection by MeV vaccine is sometimes given as a post-exposure prophylactic, it has become important to differentiate MeV wild-type infections from the virus present in the vaccine.
Vaccine strains all belong to genotype A and the wild-type genotype A MeV strains are believed to no longer be circulating.
That being the case, if a patient tests positive for genotype A, then the virus is most likely due to the vaccine.
Also, the region of the N gene between nucleotides 478 and 548 is identical for all genotype A vaccine strains that have been analyzed, and PCR-based assays have been developed based on that region so that genotype A vaccine strains can be identified without having to sequence the entire gene.
Gestrinone was developed in the early 1970s and was tested clinically as a weekly oral contraceptive in European and North American countries.
Without significant advantages over other oral contraceptives and with its high price, gestrinone was no longer used after the Stage II clinical trial.
However, from 1982 aroused widespread interest due to substantial therapeutic effects in treating endometriosis.
Under different endocrine conditions, gestrinone possesses estrogenic, progestational, androgenic, antiestrogenic and antiprogesterone actions.
Starting from gestrinone, chemists can synthesize tetrahydrogestrinone (THG) in one reaction step.
THG is a real designer steroid; designer steroids (chemically modified steroids) pose a threat to the integrity of the sport community.
These compounds have recently been detected in urine specimens from athletes, resulting in temporary or permanent suspension from amateur and/or professional competition. ,
In cats there are two different types of reticulocytes seen in blood smears - aggregate and punctate.
Aggregate reticulocytes are less mature and mature into punctate over the course of about 36 hours.
Intrachamber systolic pressure refers to the pressure inside one of the heart chambers during systole, the time period during which that chamber is contracting and pumping out blood.
The PALB2 gene (partner and localizer of BRCA2) is located on chromosome 16p12.2.
This gene encodes a protein that may function in tumor suppression.
This protein binds to and colocalizes with the breast cancer 2 early onset protein (BRCA2) in nuclear foci and likely permits the stable intranuclear localization and accumulation of BRCA2.
A narcotic analgesic proposed for severe pain.
It may be habituating.
Glucosidases are glycoside hydrolase enzymes categorized under the EC number 3.2.1.
The catalyze the cleavage of individual glucosyl residues from various glycoconjugates including alpha- or beta-linked polymers of glucose.
glucosidases are targeted by alpha-glucosidase inhibitors to control diabetes mellitus type 2.
Members include: Amylase is a digestive enzyme in mammals.-Amylase is a plant enzyme to break down starch.-Amylase is a digestive enzyme.
Cellulase breaks down cellulose from plant material.
Acid glucosidase is associated with Glycogen storage disease type II.Lactase one member of the -galactosidase family, breaks down milk sugars, and its absence in adulthood causes lactose intolerance.
Pullulanase has been used as a detergent.
Tritium (symbol T or 3H, also known as Hydrogen-3) is a radioactive isotope of hydrogen.
The nucleus of tritium (sometimes called a triton) contains one proton and two neutrons, whereas the nucleus of protium (the most abundant hydrogen isotope) contains one proton and no neutrons.
Saccharopine is an intermediate in the degradation of lysine, formed by condensation of lysine and alpha-ketoglutarate.
The saccharopine pathway is the main route for lysine degradation in mammal and its first two reactions are catalyzed by enzymatic activities known as lysine-oxoglutarate reductase (LOR) and saccharopine dehydrogenase (SDH), which reside on a single bifunctional polypeptide (EC, LOR/SDH).
The reactions involved by saccharopine dehydrogenases have a very strict substrate specificity for L-lysine, 2-oxoglutarate and NADPH.
LOR/SDH has been detected in a number of mammalian tissues, mainly in the liver and kidney, contributing not only to the general nitrogen balance in the organism but also to the controlled conversion of lysine into ketone bodies.
A tetrameric form has also been observed in human liver and placenta.
LOR activity has also been detected in brain mitochondria during embryonic development, and this opens the question of whether the degradation of lysine has any functional significance during brain development and puts a new focus on the nutritional requirements for lysine in gestation and infancy.
Finally, LOR and/or SDH deficiencies seem to be involved in a human autosomic genetic disorder known as familial hyperlysinemia, which is characterized by serious defects in the functioning of the nervous system, and characterized by deficiency in lysine-ketoglutarate reductase, saccharopine dehydrogenase, and saccharopine oxidoreductase activities.
Saccharopinuria (high amounts of saccharopine in the urine) and saccharopinemia (an excess of saccharopine in the blood) are conditions present in some inherited disorders of lysine degradation.
Hemoglobin not combined with oxygen.
Formed when oxyhemoglobin releases its oxygen.
Pyruvic acid (CH3COCOOH), an organic acid, is also a ketone and the simplest alpha-keto acid.
The carboxylate (COOH) ion (anion) of pyruvic acid, CH3COCOO-, known as pyruvate, is a key intermediary in several metabolic pathways.
It can be made from glucose through glycolysis and it supplies energy to living cells via the citric acid cycle.
It can also be converted to carbohydrates via gluconeogenesis, fatty acids or generate energy through acetyl-CoA, the amino acid alanine, and ethanol.
The bacterial (CTX-M) gene is targeted to detect CTX-M type beta lactamases, a group of class A extended-spectrum beta-lactamases (ESBLs) that are a common cause of community-acquired infections.
They exhibit powerful activity against cefotaxime and ceftriaxoane.
CTX-M type ESBLs are rapidly spreading among Enterobacteriaceae worldwide and replacing TEM-type and SHV-type beta lactamases as the predominant ESBLs in many countries.
They originate from Kluyvera species and can be separated into 5 different groups: CTX-M-1, CTX-M-2, CTX-M-9, CTX-M-8, and CTX-M-25.
CTX-M2, CTX-M3, and CTX-M14 are the most prevelant.
More than 80 CTX-M allotypes are currently known (2014).
The summed rest score (SRS), summed stress score (SSS) and summed difference score (SDS) are variables used to measure cardiac perfusion and ischemia on cardiac SPECT studies.
The SRS and SSS are calculated during the rest and stress parts of the study, respectively, and the SDS is the difference between the two.
A five-point scoring system is used to assign a perfusion value to each of the 17 or 20 myocardial segments (depending on which segmentation model is used), each of which corresponds to a coronary artery segment territory, as follows: 0 = normal tracer uptake; 1 = equivocal tracer uptake; 2 = moderate reduction in uptake; 3 = severe reduction of uptake; and 4 = absence of detectable tracer uptake.
The values for all of the segments are summed, giving a total possible SRS and SSS of 68 for the 17-segment model and 80 for the 20-segment model.
The sum of the differences between the score at rest and score with stress for each segment is the SDS, which represents the amount of ischemia.
The SRS, SSS and SDS can be converted to a percent of the total myocardium involved with stress, ischemic, or fixed defects by dividing the summed scores by either 68 or 80 (the maximum possible score for the 17 and 20-segment model, respectively), and multiplying by 100.
Strain is the magnitude of myocardial deformation, which is an energy-requiring process that occurs in both systole and diastole.
It is also considered a normalized, dimensionless measure of deformation of a segment of myocardium in response to an applied force or stress.
Abnormalities of myocardial deformation can be seen early in the development of mycardial pathophysiologic states, including ischemia.
Strain is a sensitive means for detecting regional myocardial dysfunction.
Strain calculations may be either Lagrangian (a deformation from its original length) or natural (a deformation relative to the length at a previous time).
The natural strain calculation is more appropriate than Lagrangian when large deformations are observed.
The direction of the greatest strain is considered the principal strain.
Strain values can either be positive, indicating lengthening, or negative, indicating shortening.
Values for normal circumferential and longitudinal strain are negative, and those for radial strain are positive.
Ara h 8 is a clinically relevant peanut allergen that has bears significant homology to the birch tree pollen allergen, Bet v 1.
Peanut allergy in a subgroup of patients with allergy to birch tree may be mediated by cross-reaction of Bet v 1 induced antibodies with the homologous peanut allergen Ara h 8.
Ara h 8 appears to have low stability to roasting and but resists gastric digestion, as do many/most food allergens.
Tiglylglycine is an acyl glycine.
Acyl glycines are normally minor metabolites of fatty acids.
However, the excretion of certain acyl glycines is increased in several inborn errors of metabolism.
In certain cases the measurement of these metabolites in body fluids can be used to diagnose disorders associated with mitochondrial fatty acid beta-oxidation.
Acyl glycines are produced through the action of glycine N-acyltransferase which is an enzyme that catalyzes the chemical reaction: acyl-CoA + glycine < -- > CoA + N-acylglycine Tiglylglycine is an intermediate product of the catabolism of isoleucine.
An elevated level of tiglylglycine is identified in urine of patients with beta-ketothiolase deficiency or with disorders of propionate metabolism .
An octapeptide hormone present in the intestine and brain.
When secreted from the gastric mucosa, it stimulates the release of bile from the gallbladder and digestive enzymes from the pancreas.
The ABO blood group antigens are encoded by one genetic locus, the ABO locus, which has three alternative forms: A, B, and O. A child receives one of these three forms from each parent, yielding six possible genotypes and four possible blood types (aka phenotypes:
A, AB, B, O).
ABO blood group antigens remain of prime importance in transfusion and transplantation medicine, and they are the most immunogenic of all the blood group antigens.
ABO antibodies are of major clinical significance because they are naturally and universally occurring, and they are highly reactive.
The distribution of the four phenotypes varies across the world - type O is the most common, followed by type A, then type B, and type AB is the least common.
The ABO system is acknowledged in the pathogenesis of cardiovascular, infectious and neoplastic disorders, and pre-eclampsia.
H antigen deficiency is known as the "Bombay phenotype" and is found in 1 in 10,000 people in India and 1 in 1 million people in Europe.
PT (Prothrombin) Fragment 1.2 (1+2) reported in pmol/L. Conversion of prothrombin into active thrombin accompanied by fragment formation is a key event in the coagulation cascade.
Elevated levels are detected in patients with thrombosis, pulmonary embolism, DIC (disseminated intravascular coagulation), poly-trauma, sepsis, hereditary thrombophilia, or deficiencies of protein C or protein S. Significant decrease will be found in patients on oral anticoagulant therapy or heparin therapy.
A fungus, which may result in allergy symptoms in sensitised individuals.
It is a major clinical problem to identify the extent to which a mold-sensitive patient's symptoms can be attributed to IgE-mediated allergy.
A broad-spectrum antibiotic that is being used as prophylaxis against disseminated Mycobacterium avium complex infection in HIV-positive patients.
Middle East Respiratory Syndrome (MERS) is an illness caused by the virus Middle East Respiratory Syndrome Coronovirus (MERS-CoV).
The illness was first reported in Saudi Arabia in 2012, but was later found to have originated in Jordan in 2012.
MERS has been found in camels leading to speculation that they may be the initial reservoir for the virus.
The largest outbreak of MERS that has occurred outside of the Arabian Peninsula was in the Republic of Korea in 2015 and was linked to an individual who had been traveling in the Arabian Peninsula.
The virus is probably spread through respiratory secretions from infected individuals though the exact mode of transmission is under investigation.
Infection with MERS begins with an incubation period of 5-6 days followed by a severe acute illness that involves fever, shortness of breath and for patients with comorbidities or reduced immunity can lead to pneumonia and kidney failure.
The mortality rate of MERS is 3-4 out of 10 people who are infected, though most of the people who die have underlying conditions.
In addition, some people experience only cold-like symptoms and others have no symptoms at all.
In the United States, most state laboratories are approved to test for MERS-CoV using the real-time reverse transcription-PCR assay developed by the CDC.
The assay can be run on respiratory, serum and stool specimens.
Von Willebrand collagen multimeric analysis is used to distinguish the subtype (1, 2 or 3) of von Willebrand disorders, not to establish the presence of the disorder.
It is used to determine the correct treatment in patients with the disease.
alpha-Amylase is an enzyme that hydrolyses alpha-bonds of large alpha-linked polysaccharides such as starch and glycogen, yielding glucose and maltose.
It is the major form of amylase found in humans and other mammals It is also present in seeds containing starch as a food reserve, and is secreted by many fungi.
Increased plasma levels in humans are found in: Salivary trauma (including anaesthetic intubation) Mumps - due to inflammation of the salivary glands Pancreatitis - because of damage to the cells that produce amylase Renal failure - due to reduced excretion Total amylase readings of over 10X the upper limit of normal (ULN) are suggestive of pancreatitis.
Five to ten times the ULN may indicate ileus or duodenal disease or renal failure, and lower elevations are commonly found in salivary gland disease.
Implicit b-wave time is the amount of time between the flash onset and the peak of the b-wave produced on an electroretinogram (ERG).
The Atlantic cod, Gadus morhua, is a well-known food fish belonging to the family Gadidae.
It grows to two metres in length, with sexual maturity being reached between ages 2 and 4.
Its coloring is brown to green on the dorsal side, shading to silver ventrally.
Sensitisation to fish allergen is common.
Fish, and especially Cod, is a common cause of food allergy and atopic dermatitis, in particular in countries of the Northern Hemisphere and Asian countries.
IGH-BCL2 is found in follicular lymphomas (80-90%), diffuse large cell lymphomas (30%), and rarely in other lymphoproliferative disorders.
It mainly occurs in B- cell non-hodgkin's lymphoma (NHL).
This translocation is cytogenetically indistinguishable from t(14;18)(q32;q21)
FISH with probes specific to the targeted genes distinguishs between the two different rearrangements.
A 38-kDa integral membrane glycoprotein of the presynaptic vesicles in neuron and neuroendocrine cells.
It is expressed by a variety of normal and neoplastic neuroendocrine cells and is therefore used as an immunocytochemical marker for neuroendocrine differentiation in various tumors.
In ALZHEIMER DISEASE and other dementing disorders, there is an important synapse loss due in part to a decrease of synaptophysin in the presynaptic vesicles.
Cyclospora cayetanensis is a protozoan that causes disease in humans, and perhaps other primates.
It has been linked in the United States from fecally-contaminated imported raspberries and was virtually unknown before about 1990, but has been on the rise since.
The health risk associated with the disease is usually confined to adult foreigners visiting endemic regions and acquiring the infection: this is why C. cayetanensis has been labeled as causing "traveler's diarrhea.
This species was placed in the Cyclospora genus because of the spherical shape of its sporocysts
Frozen red cells are an excellent resource for patients with extremely rare blood types.
They are the preferred component for patients sensitized to immunoglobulin A (IgA).
They may also be indicated for patients sensitized to leukocyte and platelet antigen.
Threonine is a secondary marker for Citrullinemia type II.
4-Hydroxycoumarins are a class of vitamin K antagonist (VKA) anticoagulant drug molecules derived from coumarin (chromen-2-one).
The primary mechanism of the 4-hydroxycoumarin drugs is the inhibition of vitamin K epoxide reductase.
The synthetic drugs in the 4-hydroxycoumarin class are all noted primarily for their use as anticoagulants, though they can have several additional effects.
The simplest synthetic molecule in the 4-hydroxycoumarin class is warfarin, in which the aromatic 3-position substituent is a simple phenyl group.
So called "super-warfarins" or second-generation anticoagulants in this class, were developed as rodenticides for rodents that have developed warfarin resistance.
The second generation agents have even larger lipid-soluble substituents at the 3-position (e.g. brodifacoum), a chemical change that causes their half life in the body to be greatly increased (sometimes to months).
The antirodenticide chemicals are sometimes incorrectly referred to as "coumadins" rather than 4-hydroxycoumarins (Coumadin is a brandname for warfarin).
Antibodies against the 52-kd Ro(SS-A) protein are significantly associated with the primary Sjogren's syndrome (pSS).
Ethyl sulfate (EtS), also known as sulfovinic acid, is an ethanol metabolite and may be a biomarker for recent alcohol use.
The EtS window of assessment is similar to ethyl glucuronide (EtG), but there are differences between EtS and EtG in their pathway for formation and degradation.
Follitropin is a glycoprotein pituitary hormone, which is under complex regulation by hypothalamic gonadotropin releasing hormone (GnRH) and by gonadal sex hormones, estrogen and progesterone in females, and testosterone in males.
FSH acts on the granulosa cells of the ovary and the Sertoli cells of testis.
Normally FSH increase occurs at an early stage of puberty, 2-4 years before LH (Luteinizing Hormone) reaches the same levels.
Excessive FSH increase occurs at an early stage of puberty, 2-4 years before LH reaches the same levels.
Excessive FSH and LH are found in hypogonadism, anorchia, gonadal failure, complete testicular feminization syndrome, menopause, Klinefelter syndrome, alcoholism, and castration.
FSH and LH are pituitary products, and are useful to distinguish primary gonadal failure from secondary (hypothalamic/pituitary) causes of gonadal failure, menstrual disturbances and amenorrhea.
It is useful in defining menstrual cycle phases in infertility evaluation of women and testicular dysfunction in men.
Both FSH and LH are low in pituitary or hypothalamic failure.
FSH and LH are high following menopause.
Leptospira interrogans serovar Bulgarica is sporadically found in some areas of Queensland and New South Wales, and most cases are found in southern Queensland.
The main carrier is likely the rat, and probable sources of infection include contact with soil, water or other materials contaminated with the urine of an infected animal.
Bulgarica is one of the rarest leptospiral serovars found in Australia, with only occasional cases reported.
Glycine max native (nGlym) 5 is a vicilin-like protein of beta-Conglycinin.
The presence of nGly m 5 beta-conglycinin IgE antibodies (allergen code f431) indicates an allergy to soybeans.
The exposure route for Gly m 5 is ingestion.
Testing for IgE antibodies may be used to help diagnose an allergic disease or the cause of an anaphylactic episode in a patient.
The MED12 gene (mediator complex subunit 12) is located on chromosome Xq13.
The initiation of transcription is controlled in part by a large protein assembly known as the preinitiation complex.
A component of this preinitiation complex is a 1.2 MDa protein aggregate called Mediator.
This Mediator component binds with a CDK8 subcomplex which contains the protein encoded by this gene, mediator complex subunit 12 (MED12), along with MED13, CDK8 kinase, and cyclin C.
The CDK8 subcomplex modulates Mediator-polymerase II interactions and thereby regulates transcription initiation and reinitation rates.
The MED12 protein is essential for activating CDK8 kinase.
Defects in this gene cause X-linked Opitz-Kaveggia syndrome, also known as FG syndrome, and Lujan-Fryns syndrome.
Dieldrin is a light tan, flakey compound and an organochlorine insecticide.
It is toxic to ants, cutworms, armyworms, loopers, chiggars, chinch bugs, flea hoppers, crickets, diabrotica, drosophila, earwigs, wire worms, grasshoppers, flies, Japanese beetles, leaf miners, lygus, mosquitoes, wasps, roaches, slugs, snails, sowbugs, webworms, spittlebugs, termites, thrips, ticks and many more.
Dieldrin is dangerously toxic to birds, fish, beneficial insects, and honey bees.
It likely bioaccumulates in the food chain.
Dieldrin is extremely toxic if inhaled, ingested, or absorbed by the skin and can lead to irritability, convulsions, coma, nausea, vomiting, headache, fainting, tremors, and eye irritation.
Dieldrin produces toxic fumes when heated and is a suspected carcinogen.
It is no longer manufactured in the United States.
The presence of 7-aminoflunitrazepam, a pharmacologically-active metabolite of flunitrazepam and in vitro degradation product, is useful for confirmation of flunitrazepam ingestion.
In postmortem specimens, the parent drug may have been entirely degraded over time to 7-aminoflunitrazepam.
A pyrazine that is used therapeutically as an antitubercular agent.
Benzidine, the trivial name for 4,4'-diaminobiphenyl, is the solid organic compound with the formula (C6H4NH2)2.
This aromatic amine is a component of a test for cyanide and also in the production of dyes.
Benzidine has been linked to bladder and pancreatic cancer
Botulinum toxin is a protein produced by the bacterium Clostridium botulinum, and is known to be highly neurotoxic.
Popularly known by one of its trade names, Botox, botulinum toxin is now commonly used for various cosmetic and medical procedures.
The NB gene (NME/NM23 nucleoside diphosphate kinase 1) gene is located on chromosome 17q21.3.
This gene (NME1) was identified because of its reduced mRNA transcript levels in highly metastatic cells.
Nucleoside diphosphate kinase (NDK) exists as a hexamer composed of 'A' (encoded by this gene) and 'B' (encoded by NME2) isoforms.
Mutations in this gene have been identified in aggressive neuroblastomas.
Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
Co-transcription of this gene and the neighboring downstream gene (NME2) generates naturally-occurring transcripts (NME1-NME2), which encodes a fusion protein comprised of sequence sharing identity with each individual gene product.
Dipyridamole is a drug that inhibits platelet aggregation and causes vasodilation.
It inhibits the cellular reuptake of adenosine into platelets, red blood cells and endothelial cells leading to increased extracellular concentrations of adenosine.
It also inhibits the enzyme adenosine deaminase which normally breaks down adenosine into inosine.
This inhibition leads to further increased levels of extracellular adenosine.
Dipyridamole also inhibits the enzyme phosphodiesterase which normally breaks down cAMP.Adenosine interacts with the adenosine receptors to cause increased cAMP via adenylate cyclase.cAMP impairs platelet aggregation and also causes arteriolar smooth muscle relaxation.
Modified release dipyridamole is used in conjunction with aspirin (under the trade name Aggrenox ®) in the secondary prevention of stroke and transient ischemic attack.
This practice is now confirmed by the ESPRIT trial.
Campesterol is a phytosterol, meaning it is a steroid derived from plants.
As a food additive, phytosterols have cholesterol-lowering properties (reducing cholesterol absorption in intestines), and may act in cancer prevention.
Phytosterols naturally occur in small amount in vegetable oils, especially soybean oil.
One such phytosterol complex, isolated from vegetable oil, is cholestatin, composed of campesterol, stigmasterol, and brassicasterol, and is marketed as a dietary supplement.
Sterols can reduce cholesterol in human subjects by up to 15%.
The mechanism behind phytosterols and the lowering of cholesterol occurs as follows : the incorporation of cholesterol into micelles in the gastrointestinal tract is inhibited, decreasing the overall amount of cholesterol absorbed.
This may in turn help to control body total cholesterol levels, as well as modify HDL, LDL and TAG levels.
Many margarines, butters, breakfast cereals and spreads are now enriched with phytosterols and marketed towards people with high cholesterol and a wish to lower it.
A genus of the family Chinchillidae which consists of three species: C. brevicaudata, C. lanigera, and C. villidera.
They are used extensively in biomedical research.
UR-144 is a synthetic cannabis compound.
Synthetic cannabinoids and their metabolites are psychoactive designer drugs derived of natural herbs sprayed with synthetic chemicals that, when consumed, allegedly mimic the pleasurable effects of cannabis.
The fleshy or dry ripened ovary of a plant, enclosing the seed or seeds.
A food, which may result in allergy symptoms in sensitised individuals.
Basil, a member of the Mint family, is one of the oldest herbs from the Orient.
It originated in India and is now found in more than 100 varieties and grown almost worldwide.
It is used, fresh or dried or as an extract, to add a distinct aroma and flavour to food.
Anecdotal evidence suggests that basil may induce symptoms of food allergy in sensitised individuals; however, few studies have been reported to date.
The MLC1 gene (megalencephalic leukoencephalopathy with subcortical cysts 1) is located on chromosome 22q13.33.
The function of this gene product is unknown; however, homology to other proteins suggests that it may be an integral membrane transporter.
Mutations in this gene have been associated with megalencephalic leukoencephalopathy with subcortical cysts, an autosomal recessive neurological disorder.
Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been identified.
The reference electrode location is where the reference electrode for an electroretinogram (ERG) was placed.
The primary electrode is usually placed on the cornea.
6-Hydroxybuspirone is a major active metabolite of buspirone
Protoporphyrins are tetrapyrroles containing the following side chains:methyl (4)propionic acid (2)vinyl (2)In the metabolism of porphyrin, protoporphyrin IX is created by the enzyme protoporphyrinogen oxidase, and the enzyme ferrochelatase converts it into heme.
Protoporphyrins are deposited in the shells of the eggs of some birds as a brown or red pigment, either as a ground color or as spotting.
This occurs in most passerine species, some ground-nesting non-passerines, such as waders, gulls, nightjars and sandgrouse, where it provides camouflage, and some parasitic cuckoos, which need to mimic their passerine hosts' eggs.
Protoporphyrins strengthen the egg shell, and are deposited where the shell is too thin as a result of calcium shortage.
Spotting therefore tend to be heavier where the local soil is calcium-deficient, and in the eggs laid last in a clutch.
Isoconazole is an azole antifungal drug.
Nigerian and British medical researchers found that for foot and vaginal infections, isoconazole has a similar effectiveness to clotrimazole.
AM-2201 (1-(5-fluoropentyl)-3-(1-naphthoyl)indole) is a research chemical that acts as a potent but nonselective full agonist for the cannabinoid receptor.
It is named as one of the AM series of cannabinoids discovered by Alexandros Makriyannis at Northeastern University.
The Q215S mutation is associated with Lamivudine, Adefovir and Tenofovir resistance
Phosphatidylinositol (abbreviated PtdIns, or PI) is a minor phospholipid component of eukaryotic cell membranes.
Phosphatidylinositol is a class of phospholipid, which is made up of glycerol, fatty acid and the base is replaced by a hexahydric alcohol namely inositol.
This hexahydric alcohol exists as its stereoisomer - myo-inositol.
Upon hydrolysis, they yield 1 mole of glycerol, 2 moles of fatty acid, 1 mole of inositol and 1,2, or 3 moles of phosphoric acids.
They are regarded to be the most acidic of all the phospholipids.
It is however the substrate for a large number of enzymes which are involved in cell signalling.
Bordetella pertussis is a species of Bordetella that causes pertussis, also known as whooping cough.
Pertussis causes coughing paroxysms, whooping, and post-tussive emesis.
Vaccination against B. pertussis can prevent disease; however, B. parapertussis, another species of Bordetella, also causes illness that is often indistinguishable from pertussis, and the B. pertussis vaccine does not protect against B. parapertussis infection.
Both B. pertussis and parapertussis are strictly aerobic, non-motile, gram-negative coccobacilli that are difficult to isolate using traditional culture techniques.
Diagnostic techniques include culture, molecular assays, and serology.
Androstanediol is a metabolite of dihydrotestosterone, itself a metabolite of testosterone.
Androstanediol is implicated in the regulation of gonadotropin secretion.
As a metabolite of dihydroxytestosterone formed in the peripheral tissues, androstanediol and androstnediol-glucuronide can be used to estimate peripheral androgen activity.
Androstanediol is a potential GABA (A) receptor-modulating neurosteroid with anticonvulsant properties and hence could act as a key neuromodulator in the central nervous system.
It is considered that androstanediol has hedonic effects; therefore it is anticipated that androgens that are readily metabolized to androstanediol may have higher abuse potential than androgens that are not as easily metabolized to androstanediol.
These results add to the growing literature indicating that athletes and non-athletes may be at considerable risk when they abuse androgens., , .
The CYP2C19 gene (cytochrome P450, family 2, subfamily C, polypeptide 19) is located on chromosome 10q24.
This gene encodes a member of the cytochrome P450 superfamily of enzymes.
The cytochrome P450 proteins are monooxygenases which catalyze many reactions involved in drug metabolism and synthesis of cholesterol, steroids and other lipids.
This protein localizes to the endoplasmic reticulum and is known to metabolize many xenobiotics, including the anticonvulsive drug mephenytoin, omeprazole, diazepam and some barbiturates.
Polymorphism within this gene is associated with variable ability to metabolize mephenytoin, known as the poor metabolizer and extensive metabolizer phenotypes.
The gene is located within a cluster of cytochrome P450 genes on chromosome 10q24.
Hepatitis A virus cellular receptor (HAVCR) 1 protein, also known by kidney injury molecule 1, KIM-1, TIM-1, and other names, acts as a receptor for multiple viruses, including Hepatitis A, Ebola, Marburg, Dengue, and Zika.
It also may play a role in kidney injury and repair, as well as development of T-helper cells.
HAVCR-1 is expressed on proximal tubule cells in the kidney and is not detectable in the urine in the absence of disease, making it a specific and sensitive indicator of damage to the proximal tubule.
Expression of this protein is associated with tubulointerstitial inflammation, including proteinuric nephropathy.
Elevated levels of the protein may be associated with decline in GFR.
The orange roughy, red roughy, or deep sea perch, Hoplostethus atlanticus, is a relatively large deep-sea fish belonging to the slimehead family (Trachichthyidae).
This gene encodes a subunit of a large protein complex known as a vacuolar H+-ATPase (V-ATPase).
The protein complex acts as a pump to move protons across the membrane.
This movement of protons helps regulate the pH of cells and their surrounding environment.
V-ATPase dependent organelle acidification is necessary for such intracellular processes as protein sorting, zymogen activation, and receptor-mediated endocytosis.
V-ATPase is comprised of a cytosolic V1 domain and a transmembrane V0 domain.
Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants.
Mutations in this gene are associated with infantile malignant osteopetrosis.
Nitazoxanide, also known by the brand names "Nitaxide" in Beximco Pharmaceuticals Ltd. Bangladesh, Alinia and Annita (and by Daxon, Dexidex, Kidonax, Mitafar, Pacovanton, and Paramix in Mexico,Nitazox by Edinburgh Pharmaceuticals in India by Nitax, Zox, Nitazox, Niazid and Toza in Bangladesh) is a synthetic nitrothiazolyl-salicylamide derivative and an antiprotozoal agent.
There are a variety of coronary catheters available for different use cases.
Different catheters have different combinations of stiffness, diameter, angle and shape.
Commonly used catheters are Judkins and Amplatz catheters (abbreviated JL or AL for left-sided catheters and JR or AR for right-sided).
Pigtail catheter are named for the tight coil at the end of the catheter that resembles a pig's tail.
European plaice, Pleuronectes platessa, are a commercially important flatfish.
The etiologic agent of murine typhus (see TYPHUS, ENDEMIC FLEA-BORNE).
The clear constricted portion of the chromosome at which the chromatids are joined and by which the chromosome is attached to the spindle during cell division.
Sulfadiazine is a sulfonamide antibiotic.
It eliminates bacteria that cause infections by stopping the production of folic acid inside the bacterial cell, and is commonly used to treat urinary tract infections (UTIs).
In combination, sulfadiazine and pyrimethamine, can be used to treat toxoplasmosis, a disease caused by Toxoplasma gondii.
"Vitamin K," the generic name for a family of compounds with a common chemical structure of 2-methyl-1,4-naphthoquinone, is a fat-soluble vitamin that is naturally present in some foods and is available as a dietary supplement.
These compounds include phylloquinone (vitamin K1) and a series of menaquinones (vitamin K2).
Phylloquinone is present primarily in green leafy vegetables and is the main dietary form of vitamin K. Menaquinones, which are predominantly of bacterial origin, are present in modest amounts in various animal-based and fermented foods.
Vitamin K functions as a coenzyme for vitamin K-dependent carboxylase, an enzyme required for the synthesis of proteins involved in hemostasis (blood clotting) and bone metabolism, and other diverse physiological functions.
Prothrombin (clotting factor II) is a vitamin K-dependent protein in plasma that is directly involved in blood clotting.
Food sources of phylloquinone include vegetables, especially green leafy vegetables, vegetable oils, and some fruits.
Meat, dairy foods, and eggs contain low levels of phylloquinone but modest amounts of menaquinones.
Natto (a traditional Japanese food made from fermented soybeans) has high amounts of menaquinones.
Other fermented foods, such as cheese, also contain menaquinones.
Alpha hydroxyetizolam is a benzodiazepine and is an active metabolite of etizolam.
Adverse side effects of benzodiazepines include sedation, diplopia, dysarthria, ataxia and intellectual impairment.
The DRD2 (Dopamine Receptor D2) gene encodes the D2 subtype of the dopamine receptor and inhibits adenylyl cyclase activity.
The c.-585A>G (rs1799978) variant in the DRD2 gene is associated with an increased risk of hyperprolactinemia when treated with risperidone.
Ticarcillin, almost invariably sold and used in combination with clavulanate as Timentin, is a beta-lactam antibiotic similar to penicillin.
It is often used as an injectable antibiotic for the treatment of gram negative bacteria, and is especially effective against Pseudomonas aeruginosa.
Its antibiotic properties arise from its ability to prevent cross-linking of peptidoglycan during cell wall synthesis when the bacteria tries to divide, causing death.
It will not treat viruses, including the flu.
Because it is similar in structure to penicillin, it should not be used by anyone with allergies to any penicillin-related antibiotic.
Many bacteria have developed a resistance to this antibiotic by producing beta-lactamase, which inactivates it.
Therefore, all modern ticarcillin includes clavulanic acid, an inbibitor of these enzymes.
A food, which may result in allergy symptoms in sensitised individuals.
Coffee was originally consumed in ancient Abyssinia.
Cultivated by the Arabians since 600 A.D., Coffee is now used throughout the world.
Coffee comes from an evergreen, glabrous shrub or small tree, up to 5m tall when unpruned.
It is widely grown in the warmer, moister mountainous regions of the world.
Dried seeds or "beans" are roasted, ground, and brewed to make 1 of the 2 most important beverages in the Western world.
Instant Coffee is the dried extract of roasted, ground Coffee.
Allergic reactions to ingestion of coffee are uncommon.
Clinical reactions may be difficult to differentiate from those caused by caffeine or other additives.
Instant coffee may have additives and coffee substitutes added, e.g. roasted chicory, chickpea, cereal, fruits and vegetables.
Atriplex canescens (Chamiso, Chamiza, Four wing saltbush, Four-wing saltbush, Fourwing saltbush) is a species of evergreen shrub in the Amaranthaceae family, which is native to the western United States.
The influenza virus A (FLUVA) genome is composed of eight gene segments (PB2, PB1, PA, HA, NP, NA, M, NS1) that code for 11 proteins.
Two of the genes, hemagglutinin (HA) and neuraminidase (NA), determine the structure of the two primary surface proteins of influenza viruses.
The HA and NA gene sequences are used to determine the Influenza virus subtype.
Currently there are 16 subtypes of HA and 9 subtypes of NA known, but only H 1, 2 and 3, and N 1 and 2 are commonly found in humans.
The M gene segment, which encodes two matrix proteins (M1 and M2), may also be used as a target in PCR-based assays for detection of FLUVA in various specimens.
Polyspecific (nonspecific) reagent detects both complement and IgG bound
Granulated cells that are found in almost all tissues, most abundantly in the skin and the gastrointestinal tract.
Like the BASOPHILS, mast cells contain large amounts of HISTAMINE and HEPARIN.
Unlike basophils, mast cells normally remain in the tissues and do not circulate in the blood.
Mast cells, derived from the bone marrow stem cells, are regulated by the STEM CELL FACTOR.
Alpha-N-acetylglucosaminidase is a protein associated with Sanfilippo syndrome.
A phenothiazine used as an antipsychotic agent and as an antiemetic.
Intended for use during the evaluation of suspected insulinoma characterized by hypoglycemia and increased plasma insulin concentration.
Tolbutamide is a first-generation sulfonylurea drug.
The ITGB3 gene (integrin, beta 3 (platelet glycoprotein IIIa, antigen CD61)) is located on chromosome 17q21.32.
The ITGB3 protein product is the integrin beta chain beta 3.
Integrins are integral cell-surface proteins composed of an alpha chain and a beta chain.
A given chain may combine with multiple partners resulting in different integrins.
Integrin beta 3 is found along with the alpha IIb chain in platelets.
Integrins are known to participate in cell adhesion as well as cell-surface mediated signalling.
Decreased expression of CD61 on platelets is associated with Glanzmann thrombasthenia, and CD61 is used as a cell marker in acute megakaryoblastic leukemia (AMKL)
Trichomonas vaginalis (TV) is an anaerobic, flagellated parasitic protozoan that is among the most common non-viral sexually transmitted organisms whose only known host is humans.
It is estimated that 170 million new cases occur worldwide and it is the most common sexually transmitted diseases in the United States.
TV is known to increase HIV acquisition and transmission in both men and women by acting as a cofactor to increase susceptibility to HIV of an uninfected partner and infectivity of HIV of an infected partner.
In women, infection with TV is a possible risk factor for developing cervical neoplasia, post-operative infections, adverse pregnancy outcomes, atypical pelvic inflammatory disease and infertility.
In men, infection with TV can lead to non-gonococcal urethritis, infertility, chronic prostatitis and decreased sperm motility.
Diagnosis is most often made using wet mount microscopy which has a sensitivity of only 52%.
Other diagnostic methods include Pap smear, culture and PCR with sensitivities of 56%, 78% and 84%, respectively.
There is an estimated 5 million new cases of TV annually in the United States and yet TV is still not a reportable disease.
Treatment for TV is with metronidazole though emerging metronidazole-resistant strains have been reported.
Asymptomatic infection can persist for months to years.
An insecticide and herbicide that has also been used as a wood preservative.
Pentachlorphenol is a widespread environmental pollutant.
Both chronic and acute pentachlorophenol poisoning are medical concerns.
The range of its biological actions is still being actively explored, but it is clearly a potent enzyme inhibitor and has been used as such as an experimental tool.
C3 (Propionylcarnitine)+C16 (Palmitoylcarnitine) is a marker for carnitine uptake defect, which is one of the core conditions on the HHS Secretary's Recommended Uniform Screening Panel for newborn screening.
The projected heparin dose response test is a point-of-care test performed on fresh whole blood (no citrate added) to assess patient's individual response to heparin.
The test measures the baseline (no heparin) activated clotting time, and the activated clotting times on the same blood to which 2 different concentrations of unfractionated heparin is added.
From these measurements a projected dose response is calculated.
This test is used in the cardiac operating room where patients are anticoagulated with high (3 to 5 units heparin/mL of blood) levels of unfractionated heparin.
The effect of this level of heparin anticoagulation is measured every 20 to 30 minutes while the patient is on cardiopulmonary bypass.
The heparin dose response is used to determine the appropriate amount of heparin needed to increase the patient's activated clotting time to the target level used by the hospital.
The heparin dose response test is typically performed once at the beginning of the surgical procedure before the patient is placed on bypass.
Once the patient is heparinized and placed on bypass the activated clotting time and the heparin concentration (whole blood heparin assay) are determined in the operating room every 20 to 30 minutes during the procedure.
Heparin administered to patients in the cardiac OR is unfractionated, not low molecular weight.
The amount given greatly exceeds the amount that could be monitored by the APTT.
In this setting the most important concern is that the patient receive the appropriate amount in order to reach and maintain the required anticoagulant (thrombin inhibiting) protection.
A sulfinylindene derivative prodrug whose sulfinyl moiety is converted in vivo to an active NSAID analgesic.
Specifically, the prodrug is converted by liver enzymes to a sulfide which is excreted in the bile and then reabsorbed from the intestine.
This helps to maintain constant blood levels with reduced gastrointestinal side effects.
Bwamba virus (BWA) was identified in 1937 during construction work in Bwamba County, Western Uganda.
BWA belongs to the family Peribunyaviridae, genus Orthobunyavirus.
Transmission occurs through various mosquitoes; however, the primary vectors are Anopheles funestus and Anopheles gambiae.
BWA presents as a generalized febrile illness with symptoms including exanthema, fever, headache, arthralgia, and diarrhea.
BWA can also include meningeal involvement and fatal hemorrhagic complications have been reported .
Dopamine receptor D2 long (DRD2L) is an isoform of the dopamine receptor D2, which is a subtype of the dopamine receptor.
DRD2L antibodies bind to D2L receptors on neuronal cells and affect dopaminergic neurotransmission.
Elevated levels of DRD2L antibody have been linked to an immune response to a group A streptococcus infection, which has been implicated in tic disorder and neuropsychiatric abnormalities, although this is controversial.
Mianserin is a tetracyclic antidepressant that is thought to block alpha-adrenergic, histamine H1, and some types of serotonin receptors.
Brand names include Depnon, Lantanon, Lerivon, Lumin, Norval, Tolvon, and Tolmin.
Mianserin and its metabolite, Normianserin, levels are measured to monitor heart and liver function and assess for toxicity.
The Fremont Cottonwood (Populus fremontii) is a cottonwood poplar native to North America, growing in riparian areas near streams, rivers, and wetlands in the southwestern part of the United States, and downwards into Mexico.
Date of total hysterectomy which is the surgical removal of the uterus and cervix.
The PDHA1 gene (pyruvate dehydrogenase (lipoamide) alpha 1) is located on chromosome Xp22.1.
The pyruvate dehydrogenase (PDH) complex is a nuclear-encoded mitochondrial multienzyme complex that catalyzes the overall conversion of pyruvate to acetyl-CoA and CO(2), and provides the primary link between glycolysis and the tricarboxylic acid (TCA) cycle.
The PDH complex is composed of multiple copies of three enzymatic components: pyruvate dehydrogenase (E1), dihydrolipoamide acetyltransferase (E2) and lipoamide dehydrogenase (E3).
The E1 enzyme is a heterotetramer of two alpha and two beta subunits.
This gene encodes the E1 alpha 1 subunit containing the E1 active site, and plays a key role in the function of the PDH complex.
Mutations in this gene are associated with pyruvate dehydrogenase E1-alpha deficiency and X-linked Leigh syndrome.
Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
Found on platelets, megakaryocytes and monocytes Associated with B-cell ALL; Some AML; Some CLL
Intraductal carcinoma of the prostate (IDC-P) is usually associated with invasive prostate cancer with large tumor volume and worse prognosis.
The diagnosis of IDC-P is based on morphology with features including large caliber glands, preserved basal cells, significant nuclear atypia, and sometimes comedonecrosis.
It is important to distinguish IDC-P from high grade prostatic intraepithelial neoplasia (HGPIN), which demonstrates less architectural and cytological atypia.
Becasue of its strong association with invasive carcinoma and metastatic disease, the presence of IDC-P in a biopsy mandates immediate repeat biopsy or definitive therapy
Alternaria is a genus of ascomycete fungi.
Alternaria species are known as major plant pathogens.
They are also common allergens in humans, growing indoors and causing hay fever or hypersensitivity reactions that sometimes lead to asthma.
They readily cause opportunistic infections in immunocompromised people such as AIDS patients.
There are 299 species in the genus; they are ubiquitous in the environment and are a natural part of fungal flora almost everywhere.
They are normal agents of decay and decomposition.
The spores are airborne and found in the soil and water, as well as indoors and on objects.
The club-shaped spores are single or form long chains.
They can grow thick colonies which are usually black or gray.
At least 20% of agricultural spoilage is caused by Alternaria species.
Many human health disorders can be caused by these fungi, which grow on skin and mucous membranes, including on the eyeballs and within the respiratory tract.
Allergies are common, but serious infections are rare, except in people with compromised immune systems.
However, species of this fungal genus are often prolific producers of a variety of toxic compounds.
The effects most of these compounds have on animal and plant health are not well known.
The terms alternariosis and alternariatoxicosis are used for disorders in humans and animals caused by a fungus in this genus.
Not all Alternaria species are pests and pathogens; some have shown promise as biocontrol agents against invasive plant species.
The t(4;14)(p16;q32)(FGFR3,IGH) is detected by FISH and PCR methods, but poorly analyzed by conventional cytogenetic methods (e.g. karyotyping).
The breakpoints on chromosome 4 occur within a 113-kb gene cluster region involving the fibroblast growth factor receptor 3 (FGFR3) gene.
The fusion results in overexpression and activation of FGFR3, which causes oncogenic signal enhancing cell proliferation and survival.
The t(4;14) translocation provides important prognostic information in patients with plasma cell myeloma.
It is often associated with poor survival and poor response to chemotherapy.
A species of gram-negative, aerobic bacteria that is the etiologic agent of epidemic typhus fever acquired through contact with lice (TYPHUS, EPIDEMIC LOUSE-BORNE) as well as Brill's disease.
Tetrahydrocortisone is a steroid.
English yew, also known as common yew or European yew, is a long-lived evergreen conifer native to Europe, southwestern Asia and northern Africa.
English yew is poisonous, and the pollen of the male yew is highly allergenic.
P-selectin is a cell adhesion molecule (CAM) found in granules in endothelial cells (cells lining blood vessels) and activated platelets.
Other names for P-selectin include CD62P, Granule Membrane Protein 140 (GMP-140), and Platelet Activation-Dependent Granule to External Membrane Protein (PADGEM).
It was first shown to be found in endothelial cells in 1989.
The JAK2 gene is located on chromosome 9p24.
Mutations in exon 12 of the JAK2 gene are present in patients with a distinctive myeloproliferative syndrome.
These patients display a clinical phenotype and bone marrow histologic findings which differ from those observed in V617F-positive patients.
In most cases they have marked erythrocytosis, absence of leukocytosis or thrombocytosis, low serum erythropoietin levels and isolated erythroid hyperplasia in the bone marrow.
In vitro conversion refers to morphological changes undergone by fungi in response to nutrients or temperature, such as conversion between mycelial, yeast and conidial forms.
A species of parasitic protozoa causing ENTAMOEBIASIS and amebic dysentery (DYSENTERY, AMEBIC).
Characteristics include a single nucleus containing a small central karyosome and peripheral chromatin that is finely and regularly beaded.
Mucin-4 (MUC-4) is a mucin protein encoded by the MUC4 gene and belonging to the Mucin family, a group of high molecular weight, heavily glycosylated proteins (glycoconjugates).
Mucins are major constituents of mucus that covers epithelial surfaces such as those in the trachea, colon, and cervix.
They play important roles in the protection, renewal and differentiation of the epithelial cells.
MUC-4 has been found to play various roles in the progression of cancer, particularly due to its signaling and anti-adhesive properties which contribute to tumor development and metastasis.
It is also found to play roles in other diseases such as endometriosis and inflammatory bowel.
Flare is the presence of fibrin in the aqueous humor due to intraocular inflammation.
CD68, 110 kDa, a highly glycosylated transmembrane protein which is mainly located in lysosomes.
Present in macrophages in many human tissues including Kupffer's cells and macrophages in the red pulp of the spleen, in lung alveoli, in lamina propria of the gut, and in the bone marrow.
Used as immunocytochemical marker for staining of monocytes/macrophages.
Pru p 3 is a non-specific lipid transfer protein (nsLTP).
nsLTPs are panallergens that have a ubiquitous distribution in tissues of many plant species, resulting in variable degrees of cross-reactivity, and in particularly relevant cross-reactivity in fruits and vegetables.
Pru p 3, possibly along with other larger proteins, is involved in allergenic relationships with other fruits from the family Rosaceae, particularly Apricot, Cherry, and Plum.
Depleted uranium (DU) is a weakly radioactive heavy metal.
DU emits ~40% less radioactivity than uranium.
Carbonic acid calcium salt (CaCO3).
An odorless, tasteless powder or crystal that occurs in nature.
It is used therapeutically as a phosphate buffer in hemodialysis patients and as a calcium supplement.
Time in hours between current event, such as a glucose test and last meal.
N-methylhistamine (NHM) is the primary metabolite of histamine, which is produced by mast cells.
Mast cells are often activated due to an allergic immune response.
Increased production of histamine is seen in patients with severe allergic reactions and in patients with mastocytosis, a rare condition associated with abnormal proliferation of mast cells.
NHM levels are measured to screen and monitor patients with such conditions.
Alnus rhombifolia (White Alder) is an alder native to western North America, from Washington east to western Montana and south to California, occurring at altitudes of 100-2400 m.
Mesuximide (or methsuximide) is an succinimide anticonvulsant medication.
It is sold as a racemate by Pfizer under the tradenames Petinutin (Switzerland) and Celontin (United States).
The therapeutic efficacy of methsuximide is largely due to its pharmacologically active metabolite, N-desmethylmethsuximide (normethsuximide), which has a longer half-life and attains much higher plasma levels than its parent.
Methadone is a narcotic analgesic which is used in the treatment of pain and as a primary treatment of narcotic addiction.
Methadone metabolites include 2-ethylidene-1, 5-dimethyl-3,3-diphenylpyrrolidine (EDDP) and 2-ethyl-5-methyl-3,3-diphenylpyrroline (EMDP), both of which are inactive.
EDDP is the primary metabolite and is the analyte that is measured with methadone for drug monitoring.
Vanilla is native to Mexico, where it is still grown commercially.
Vanilla may uncommonly induce symptoms of food or skin allergy in sensitised individuals.
The prevalence of specific IgE to purified Pla l 1 in Plantain-allergic patients was demonstrated to be 86%, and this represents about 80% of the total allergen-specific IgE-binding capacity of the Plantain extract
A narcotic analgesic structurally related to METHADONE.
Only the dextro-isomer has an analgesic effect; the levo-isomer appears to exert an antitussive effect.
An ocular alignment exam is examination of the two eyes to determine if they are fixated on the same point in space, or whether there is a deviation of one or both eyes.
The HMBS gene (hydroxymethylbilane synthase) is located on chromosome 11q23.3.
This gene encodes a member of the hydroxymethylbilane synthase superfamily.
The encoded protein is the third enzyme of the heme biosynthetic pathway and catalyzes the head to tail condensation of four porphobilinogen molecules into the linear hydroxymethylbilane.
Mutations in this gene are associated with the autosomal dominant disease acute intermittent porphyria.
Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been described.
Carpinus betulus (European or common hornbeam) is a hornbeam native to western, central and southern England.
It requires a warm climate for good growth, and occurs only at elevations up to 600 metres.
It grows in mixed stands with oak, and in some areas beech, and is also a common tree in scree forests.
An alcohol produced from mint oils or prepared synthetically.
Phosphate levels are checked to see if a patient has a kidney or bone-related disease or to identify problems with certain glands, such as the parathyroid glands.
Phosphate is a salt of phosphoric acid.
In organic chemistry, a phosphate, or organophosphate, is an ester of phosphoric acid.
The body needs phosphate to build and repair bones and teeth and to help the nervous system function.
A high level of phosphate in the blood is usually caused by a kidney problem since they help control the amount of phosphate in the blood.
Phosphate levels also affects the level of calcium in the blood, so both calcium and phosphate levels are usually measured at the same time.
In animals, rat poison containing phosphorus has been responsible for intoxication, including secondary poisoning.
Chemical tests must be used for confirmation since clinical and pathological findings are usually not sufficient.
Aspergillus flavus is a fungus known to produce the carcinogen aflatoxin and is pathogenic to several plant and animal species, including humans and domestic animals.
It is commonly found on corn and peanuts and can also infect the seeds of cotton and nut trees.
A. flavus causes aspergillosis in humans, especially among immunocompromised patients.
Caspofungin (INN) (brand name Cancidas worldwide) is an antifungal drug, the first of a new class termed the echinocandins from Merck & Co., Inc.
It shows activity against infections with Aspergillus and Candida, and works by inhibiting the enzyme β(1,3)-D-Glucan synthase and thereby disturbing the integrity of the fungal cell wall.
Caspofungin is administered intravenously.
Grass allergen mix 5 (gx5) contains sweet vernal grass, Bermuda grass, cocksfoot, timothy, common reed IgE antibodies.
Testing for IgE antibodies may be used to help diagnose an allergic disease or the cause of an anaphylactic episode in a patient.
Kanamycin is an aminoglycoside antibiotic that is isolated from the bacterium Streptomyces kanamyceticus.
It binds to the bacterial 30S ribosomal subunit which cause a faulty reading of t-RNA that blocks the synthesis of proteins necessary for growth.
Aminoglycosides are used to treat aerobic bacteria, Gram-negative bacteria including Pseudomona, Acinetobacter, Enterobacter and some mycobacteria, including Mycobacterium tuberculosis.
The aminoglycosides are not effective treatments for anaerobic bacteria, fungi or viruses.
Red blood cells, or packed red blood cells, are prepared from whole blood collected in one of several approved anticoagulant solutions.
The usual 250-300 ml unit of red blood cells (RBCs) has a hematocrit of 55-80%, with some platelets and/or white cells removed during processing.
Red blood cells are the component of choice for patients with a symptomatic deficit of oxygen-carrying capacity.
RBCs may also be used to help restore cells lost following significant hemorrhage.
Removal of plasma reduces the risk of adverse reactions.
Recombinant non-glycosylated protein produced in an E. coli strain carrying a cloned cDNA encoding Canis familiaris allergen Can f 2.
The distance between Condylion and A point
Alpha-aminoadipic semialdehyde (α-AASA) is a derivative of lysine used in the production of elastin and collagen.
Accumulation of α-AASA (in CSF, plasma and urine) and pipecolic acid (CSF and plasma) due to a deficiency of α-AASA dehydrogenase (antiquin) occurs in patients with pyridoxine-dependent epilepsy (PDE), a rare, autosomal recessive disorder.
α-AASA exists in a reversible equilibrium with its Schiff base, delta-1-piperideine-6-carboxylate (P6C), which is also measured, sometimes in summation with α-AASA.
The FTCD gene (formimidoyltransferase cyclodeaminase) is located on chromosome 21q22.3.
The protein encoded by this gene is a bifunctional enzyme that channels 1-carbon units from formiminoglutamate, a metabolite of the histidine degradation pathway, to the folate pool.
Mutations in this gene are associated with glutamate formiminotransferase deficiency.
Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been found for this gene.
The CMKBR5 gene (chemokine (C-C motif) receptor 5 (gene/pseudogene)) gene is located on chromosome 3p21.31.
This gene encodes a member of the beta chemokine receptor family, which is predicted to be a seven transmembrane protein similar to G protein-coupled receptors.
This protein is expressed by T cells and macrophages, and is known to be an important co-receptor for macrophage-tropic virus, including HIV, to enter host cells.
Defective alleles of this gene have been associated with the HIV infection resistance.
The ligands of this receptor include monocyte chemoattractant protein 2 (MCP-2), macrophage inflammatory protein 1 alpha (MIP-1 alpha), macrophage inflammatory protein 1 beta (MIP-1 beta) and regulated on activation normal T expressed and secreted protein (RANTES).
Expression of this gene was also detected in a promyeloblastic cell line, suggesting that this protein may play a role in granulocyte lineage proliferation and differentiation.
This gene is located at the chemokine receptor gene cluster region.
Two transcript variants encoding the same protein have been found for this gene.
The guar bean or cluster bean (Cyamopsis tetragonolobus) is an annual legume and the source of guar gum
Extended-spectrum beta-lactamases (ESBL) are enzymes produced by some bacteria that are resistant to the majority of beta-lactam antibiotics which include the penicillins, cephalosporins and the monobactam aztreonam.
Organisms producing CTX-M type ESBL enzymes have been isolated worldwide with more than 150 enzymes identified.
These enzymes have been classified into seven major phylogenetic groups: CTX-M -1, CTX-M-2, CTX-M-8, CTX-M-9, CTX-M-25, CTX-M-74 and CTX-M-75.
The rare ESBL type CTX-M-8 has been isolated in Germany, mainly in E. coli, but also in Salmonella and E. aerogenes.
CTX-M type ESBL have been isolated worldwide and their incidence has increased dramatically and is still increasing leading to a major therapeutic issue.
Currently more than 150 allelic variants of CTX-M have been identified.
These enzymes are classified in five major phylogenetic groups based on their gene sequences: CTX-M -1, CTX-M-2, CTX-M-8, CTX-M-9, CTX-M-25; two additional groups have been reported recently: CTX-M-74 and CTX-M-75.
The dissemination of these enzymes has caused an increased use of carbapenems for treatment of infections which carries its own risk of furthering resistance.
The genes are named with the prefix "bla", which stands for "beta-lactam", followed by the enzyme, for example, blaCTX-M-1.
Monitoring hydroxychloroquine (HCQ) levels may improve adherence, and whole blood HCQ concentrations may be useful in titrating dose to achieve maximal clinical benefit in lupus while minimizing long-term retinal toxicity in lupus and other chronic autoimmune diseases.
In lupus, RA and other autoimmune diseases, several weeks or months may be required to reach maximum therapeutic benefit that correlates with whole blood HCQ measurement.
Pirlimycin hydrochloride belongs to the lincosamide class of antimicrobials.
Under the trade name Pirsue, it is used in the treatment of mastitis in cattle.
Onchocerca is a genus of nematode (roundworm) that includes O. volvulus, the causative agent of the human disease known as River Blindness.
River blindness results in vision impairment and can also cause skin disease and debilitating itching.
Onchocerciasis is the second-leading infectious cause of blindness in humans.
Other species of Onchocerca include O. lupi, which can cause disease in dogs, cats, and humans, O. gutturosa and O. lienalis, which affect cattle, and O. cervicalis, which affects horses.
Ethoprop is an organophosphte, cholinesterase inhibitor that is used as an insecticide, namaticide, and fungicide on food and non-food crops.
Ethoprop prevents cholinesterase from the accumulation of the neurotransmitter acetylcholine causing neurotoxicity.
Ethoprop is highly toxic when absorbed through the skin or inhaled.
Chronic exposure to ethoprop can lead to liver damage.
Ethoprop is a suspected carcinogen.
m-Cresol, also 3-methylphenol, is a phenol, with formula (CH3)C6H4(OH).
Amongst its uses it can be used as a solvent for dissolving polymers, most notably the conducting polymer polyaniline.
When polyaniline is cast from a solution of m-cresol or a polyaniline film is exposed to m-cresol vapor the conductivity is higher than a polyaniline film cast without the presence of m-cresol.
It is an isomer of p-cresol, o-cresol and anisole
Phenylpyruvic acid is a pyruvic acid derivative.
Most human papilloma virus (HPV) genomes encode for eight major proteins, six "early" (E1, E2, E3, E4, E6, and E7) and two "late" (L1 and L2).
The "early" are regulatory in function.
E6 and E7 genes in high-risk HPV genotypes are known as oncogenes because of their continuous expression, which leads to disruption of cell-cycle check points and cell genome instability through alteration of cellular p53 and retinoblastoma protein functions.
The DFNB31 gene (deafness, autosomal recessive 31) is located on chromosome 9q32.
This gene is thought to function in the organization and stabilization of sterocilia elongation and actin cystoskeletal assembly, based on studies of the related mouse gene.
Mutations in this gene have been associated with autosomal recessive non-syndromic deafness and Usher Syndrome.
Alternative splicing of this gene results in multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms.
The MLL gene (lysine (K)-specific methyltransferase 2A) is located on chromosome 11q23.
This gene encodes a transcriptional coactivator that plays an essential role in regulating gene expression during early development and hematopoiesis.
The encoded protein contains multiple conserved functional domains.
One of these domains, the SET domain, is responsible for its histone H3 lysine 4 (H3K4) methyltransferase activity which mediates chromatin modifications associated with epigenetic transcriptional activation.
This protein is processed by the enzyme Taspase 1 into two fragments, MLL-C and MLL-N. These fragments reassociate and further assemble into different multiprotein complexes that regulate the transcription of specific target genes, including many of the HOX genes.
Multiple chromosomal translocations involving this gene are the cause of certain acute lymphoid leukemias and acute myeloid leukemias.
Alternate splicing results in multiple transcript variants.
Fuchsia is a genus of flowering plants in the Onagraceae family.
Fuchsia consists mostly of shrubs or small trees with over 110 species.
Acenocoumarol is an anticoagulant that functions as a vitamin K antagonist (like warfarin).
It is a derivative of coumarin and is generic, so is marketed under many brand names worldwide.
A volatile vasodilator which relieves ANGINA PECTORIS by stimulating GUANYLATE CYCLASE and lowering cytosolic calcium.
Pale pink and speckled with brown spots.
Similar to Chili beans.
Chromosome 9p21 g.22125503G>C (rs1333049) is associated with increased risk of atherosclerosis and myocardial infarction.
The CC genotype is associated with elevated triglyceride and cholesterol levels, and in addition, men with the CC genotype are at increased risk of sudden cardiac death.
Clostebol (INN), usually as the ester clostebol acetate, is a synthetic anabolic androgenic steroid.
Clostebol is the 4-chloro derivative of the natural hormone testosterone.
Neutrophil dysplastic changes/dysgranulopoiesis appear in primary and secondary myelodysplastic syndromes.
These changes are characterized by nuclear hypolobulation (pseudo Pelger-Huët) and hypersegmentation, cytoplasmic hypo-/agranularity, giant forms and cytoplasmic-nuclear maturation asynchrony.
Apolipoproteins are a family of proteins involved in cholesterol transport and metabolism.
Apoliprotein A is an important component of high-density lipoprotein (HDL or "good" cholesterol) and has several subtypes, including A-I and A-II, which are encoded by the APOA1 and APOA2 genes, respectively.
A-I and A-II are the primary protein components of HDL.
Deficiency of apolipoprotein A-I is associated with low HDL levels, while deficiency of A-II is not associated with significant changes in HDL or other lipid levels .
Macrophage found in tissue
Phl p 6 binds IgE antibodies from 60-75% of grass pollen-sensitised subjects.
Phl p 6 is one of the group 6 grass allergens and has so far only been identified in timothy and Kentucky blue grass.
The type species of ORTHOPOXVIRUS, related to COWPOX VIRUS, but whose true origin is unknown.
It has been used as a live vaccine against smallpox.
It is also used as a vector for inserting foreign DNA into animals.
Rabbitpox virus is a subspecies of VACCINIA VIRUS.
The genus Tamarix (tamarisk, salt cedar) comprises about 50-60 species of flowering plants in the family Tamaricaceae, native to drier areas of Eurasia and Africa
Sandfly fever Naples virus (SFNV) was isolated in 1971in Italy from the sandfly Phlebotomus perniciosus.
SFNV belongs to the family Phenuiviridae, genus Phlebovirus.
The primary vector of SFNV is Phlebotomus Papatasi.
Sandfly fever Naples virus and Sandfly fever Sicilian virus infections share symptoms and clinical similarity.
Symptoms often present as a 3 day fever with abrupt onset, headache, muscular pain, photophobia, and nausea .
The jackfruit (Artocarpus heterophyllus or A. heterophylla is a species of tree in the mulberry family (Moraceae), which is native to parts of Southern and Southeast Asia.
It is the national fruit of Bangladesh.
Nelfinavir is a Protease Inhibitor (PI) antiretroviral drug used in the treatment of HIV.
Drug resistance reports assist with treatment decisions.
Tsuga canadensis, also known as Eastern or Canadian Hemlock, and in the French-speaking regions of Canada as Pruche du Canada, is a coniferous tree native to eastern North America.
It ranges from northeastern Minnesota eastward through southern Quebec to Nova Scotia, and south in the Appalachian Mountains to northern Georgia and Alabama.
The EZH2 (enhancer of zeste 2 polycomb repressive complex 2 subunit) gene is located on chromosome 7 at 7q36.1.
This gene encodes a member of the Polycomb-group (PcG) family.
PcG family members form multimeric protein complexes, which are involved in maintaining the transcriptional repressive state of genes over successive cell generations.
This protein associates with the embryonic ectoderm development protein, the VAV1 oncoprotein, and the X-linked nuclear protein.
This protein may play a role in the hematopoietic and central nervous systems.
Multiple alternatively splcied transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms have been identified for this gene.
Giant ragweed is native to eastern North America, and to Colorado and Mexico.
It is most abundant along the flood plains of south-eastern rivers.
In the Mississippi Delta it can form vast stands.
It can also be found in Japan and has colonised Europe.
Ragweed, and in particular Short ragweed (A. artemisiifolia), is clinically the most important source of seasonal aeroallergens, as it is responsible for both the majority of cases and the most severe cases of allergic rhinitis.
Ragweed pollen also contributes significantly to exacerbation of asthma and allergic conjunctivitis.
Ragweed pollen has also been implicated in eustachian tube dysfunction in patients with allergic rhinitis and in contact dermatitis.
The SERPINA10 gene (serpin peptidase inhibitor, clade A (alpha-1 antiproteinase, antitrypsin), member 10) is located on chromosome 14q32.13.
The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the serpin family.
It is predominantly expressed in the liver and secreted in plasma.
It inhibits the activity of coagulation factors Xa and XIa in the presence of protein Z, calcium and phospholipid.
Mutations in this gene are associated with venous thrombosis.
Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been found for this gene.
The MAN2B1 gene (mannosidase alpha class 2B member 1) is located on chromosome 19p13.2.
This gene encodes an enzyme that hydrolyzes terminal, non-reducing alpha-D-mannose residues in alpha-D-mannosides.
Its activity is necessary for the catabolism of N-linked carbohydrates released during glycoprotein turnover and it is member of family 38 of glycosyl hydrolases.
The full length protein is processed in two steps.
First, a 49 aa leader sequence is cleaved off and the remainder of the protein is processed into 3 peptides of 70 kDa, 42 kDa (D) and 13/15 kDa (E).
Next, the 70 kDa peptide is further processed into three peptides (A, B and C).
The A, B and C peptides are disulfide-linked.
Defects in this gene have been associated with lysosomal alpha-mannosidosis.
Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
An iron-containing protein complex that is formed by a combination of ferric iron with the protein apoferritin .
1,2-Dichlorobenzene, or ortho-dichlorobenzene (ODCB), is an organic compound with the formula C6H4Cl2.
This colorless liquid is poorly soluble in water but miscible with most organic solvents.
It is a derivative of benzene, consisting of two adjacent chlorine centers.
Rough pigweed is a summer annual about 1-3 feet tall that is either sparingly branched or unbranched.
It is found in dry areas of disturbed prairies, disturbed hill prairies, farm lots, gravelly roadside areas and waste areas.
Allergies to rough pigweed are most common between June and September but are weather dependant.
The SRY gene (sex determining region Y) is located on chromosome Yp11.3.
This intronless gene encodes a transcription factor that is a member of the high mobility group (HMG)-box family of DNA-binding proteins.
This protein is the testis-determining factor (TDF), which initiates male sex determination.
Mutations in this gene give rise to XY females with gonadal dysgenesis (Swyer syndrome); translocation of part of the Y chromosome containing this gene to the X chromosome causes XX male syndrome.
Voriconazole N-oxide is a metabolite of voriconazole.
The parent drug, voriconazole is a triazole antifungal medication that is generally used to treat serious fungal infections such as invasive candidiasis and aspergillosis, in patients who are immunocompromised.
Although vorizonazole N-oxide has minimal antifungal activity compared to its parent drug, it has been found to inhibit the metabolic activity of CYP3A4 and CYP2C19 in vitro, and because voriconazole is mainly metabolized via CYP2C19 and/or CYP3A4, its metabolite may actually affect its metabolism.
Checking levels of both voriconazole and its N-oxide metabolite can be useful for therapeutic drug monitoring and evaluation for toxicity.
Ethylmalonic acid is identified in the urine of patients with short-chain acyl-coenzyme A dehydrogenase deficiency, which is a fatty acid metabolism disorder.
The active sympathomimetic hormone from the adrenal medulla in most species.
It stimulates both the alpha- and beta- adrenergic systems, causes systemic vasoconstriction and gastrointestinal relaxation, stimulates the heart, and dilates bronchi and cerebral vessels.
It is used in asthma and cardiac failure and to delay absorption of local anesthetics.
Fexofenadine (Allegra, Telfast, Fastofen, Tilfur, Vifas) is an antihistamine drug used in the treatment of hayfever and similar allergy symptoms.
It was developed as a successor of and alternative to terfenadine (brand names include Triludan and Seldane), an antihistamine with potentially serious contraindications.
Fexofenadine, like other second and third-generation antihistamines, does not readily cross the blood-brain barrier, and so causes less drowsiness than first-generation histamine-receptor antagonists.
It works by being an antagonist to the H1 receptor.
Smudge cells are immature leukocytes that have been partially broken down during preparation of a stained smear or tissue section, because of their greater fragility.
Fragile lymphocytes are associated with CLL.
Beta naturetic peptide (BNP) belongs to a family of structurally similar peptides that are produced by myocardial cells as well as by other cells.
Two types of naturetic proteins are produced by the heart: A-type naturetic peptide (ANP) (made exclusively by atrial myocytes and BNP.
ANP is made by both atrial and ventricular myocytes.
BNP stays constant in relation to cardiac stress, ANP does change.
Pepsin, an acidic gastric protease, is one of the 3 principal protein-degrading, or proteolytic, enzymes in the digestive system, the other 2 being chymotrypsin and trypsin.
Pepsin may uncommonly induce symptoms of occupational allergy, in particular asthma, in sensitised individuals
An anticoagulant that acts by inhibiting the synthesis of vitamin K-dependent coagulation factors.
Warfarin is indicated for the prophylaxis and/or treatment of venous thrombosis and its extension, pulmonary embolism, and atrial fibrillation with embolization.
It is also used as an adjunct in the prophylaxis of systemic embolism after myocardial infarction.
Warfarin is also used as a rodenticide.
The SLC22A5 gene (solute carrier family 22 (organic cation/carnitine transporter), member 5) is located on chromosome 5q23.3.
Polyspecific organic cation transporters in the liver, kidney, intestine, and other organs are critical for elimination of many endogenous small organic cations as well as a wide array of drugs and environmental toxins.
The encoded protein is a plasma integral membrane protein which functions both as an organic cation transporter and as a sodium-dependent high affinity carnitine transporter.
The encoded protein is involved in the active cellular uptake of carnitine.
Mutations in this gene are the cause of systemic primary carnitine deficiency (CDSP), an autosomal recessive disorder manifested early in life by hypoketotic hypoglycemia and acute metabolic decompensation, and later in life by skeletal myopathy or cardiomyopathy.
Transferrin receptor (p90, CD71), (Cluster of Differentiation 71) also known as TFRC, is a human gene.
CD71 mediates cellular uptake of iron.
The LITAF gene (lipopolysaccharide-induced TNF factor) is located on chromosome 16p13.13.
Lipopolysaccharide is a potent stimulator of monocytes and macrophages, causing secretion of tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha) and other inflammatory mediators.
This gene encodes lipopolysaccharide-induced TNF-alpha factor, which is a DNA-binding protein and can mediate the TNF-alpha expression by direct binding to the promoter region of the TNF-alpha gene.
The transcription of this gene is induced by tumor suppressor p53 and has been implicated in the p53-induced apoptotic pathway.
Mutations in this gene cause Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease type 1C (CMT1C) and may be involved in the carcinogenesis of extramammary Paget's disease (EMPD).
Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants have been found for this gene.
Serratia marcescens is an opportunistic, gram negative, pathogen from the family Enterobacteriaceae that causes both opportunistic and nosocomial infections.
It is estimated that only 1-2% of hospital acquired infections, typically of the respiratory tract, urinary tract, surgical wounds or soft tissues, are due to Serratia marcescens.
Serratia-associated meningitis can occur in pediatric patients.
Diagnosis of Serratia marcescens infection is made through standard laboratory testing of blood, urine, pus and other bodily fluids.
Severe infections, including meningitis and sepsis, have a high mortality rate.
A renal dehydropeptidase-I and leukotriene D4 dipeptidase inhibitor.
Since the antibiotic, IMIPENEM, is hydrolyzed by dehydropeptidase-I, which resides in the brush border of the renal tubule, cilastatin is administered with imipenem to increase its effectiveness.
The drug also inhibits the metabolism of leukotriene D4 to leukotriene E4.
The POMT1 gene (protein-O-mannosyltransferase 1) is located on chromosome 9q34.1.
The protein encoded by this gene is an O-mannosyltransferase that requires interaction with the product of the POMT2 gene for enzymatic function.
The encoded protein is found in the membrane of the endoplasmic reticulum.
Defects in this gene are a cause of Walker-Warburg syndrome (WWS) and limb-girdle muscular dystrophy type 2K (LGMD2K).
Several transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
Chymotrypsin is a digestive enzyme that can perform proteolysis.
Chymotrypsin cleaves peptides at the carboxyl side of tyrosine, tryptophan, and phenylalanine, although over time it also hydrolyzes other amide bonds, particularly those with leucine -donated carboxyls.
Activation of chymotrypsin:Chymotrypsin is synthesized in the pancreas by protein biosynthesis as a precursor called chymotrypsinogen that is enzymatically inactive.
On cleavage by trypsin into two parts that are still connected via an S-S bond, cleaved chymotrypsinogen molecules can activate each other by removing two small peptides in a trans -proteolysis.
The resulting molecule is active chymotrypsin, a three polypeptide molecule interconnected via disulfide bonds.
Action and Kinetics of chymotrypsin:In vivo, chymotrypsin is a proteolytic enzyme acting in the digestive systems of mammals and other organisms.
Sofosbuvir (Sovaldi) is a nucleotide analogue NS5B polymerase inhibitor for the treatment of chronic hepatitis C virus (HCV) infection as a component of a combination antiviral treatment regimen.
The replication of HCV requires NS5B, an RNA-dependent RNA polymerase, responsible for the synthesis of both positive-strand genomic RNA and negative-strand RNA.
Sofosbuvir mimics the natural substrate of NS5B polymerase and becomes incorporated into the growing RNA, inducing a chain termination event.
Sofosbuvir, as one of the nucleos(t)ide analog inhibitors, has a distinct resistance profile that does not overlap with the non-nucleoside NS5B protease inhibitors.
Resistance to sofosbuvir is uncommon.
The S282T mutation has been identified as the common variant to pose resistance to sofosbuvir, however, this variant is not generally found in untreated patients with HCV.
Myoglobin is a very sensitive marker (90-100%) for acute myocardial infarction (AMI) but lacks specificity.
Serum concentrations of myoglobin increase above the reference interval as early as 1 hour after MI, with peak sensitivity in the range of 2-12 hr, suggesting that serum myoglobin reflects the early course of myocardial necrosis.
Myoglobin is rapidly cleared and thus has a substantially reduced clinical sensitivity after 12 hr.
For detecting AMI, myoglobin must be measured within the first 0-4 hr, the time period in which CK-MB and possibly cardiac troponin are still within their reference range.
The vena contracta (VC) is the diameter of the smallest area of regurgitant blood flow.
The diameter of the VC can be measured using Doppler imaging and reflects the degree of valvular regurgitation regardless of regurgitant jet direction.
VC measurements have good correlation with other methods of evaluating valve regurgitation and can be used to assess all four cardiac valves.
Boiling is known to reduce the allergenicity of the whey proteins but not of casein.
Boiled milk or casein could be used to test whether a cow's milk-sensitive patient is likely to tolerate cooked or baked milk products.
Coronary artery stenosis is usually graded based on the classification developed by an American College of Cardiology/American Heart Association task force.
Characteristics of Type A lesions include length <10 mm, a concentric pattern, little or no calcification, absence of thrombus, and no major branch involvement.
Type B1 lesions are those that contain one type B characteristic, which characteristics include length 10-20 mm, eccentric pattern, moderate to heavy calcification, and the presence of some thrombus.
Type B2 lesions contain two or more type B characteristics.
Type C lesions are characterized by length >2 cm, extensive tortuosity of the proximal segment, extremely angulated segments, and total occlusion >3 months old.
Coumafuryl, also known as furamin is derivative of coumarin.
It may be used as rodenticide.
Time for the formation of a stable clot (between 2mm and 20 mm of firmness)
Interferons (IFNs) are a class of natural proteins produced by the cells of the immune systems of most animals in response to challenges by foreign agents such as viruses, bacteria, parasites and tumor cells.
Interferons belong to the large class of glycoproteins known as cytokines.
IFNs belong to the large class of glycoproteins known as cytokines.
Interferons are named after their ability to "interfere" with viral replication within host cells.
IFNs have other functions: they activate immune cells, such as natural killer cells and macrophages; they increase recognition of infection or tumor cells by up-regulating antigen presentation to T lymphocytes; and they increase the ability of uninfected host cells to resist new infection by virus.
Certain host symptoms, such as aching muscles and fever, are related to the production of IFNs during infection.
About ten distinct IFNs have been identified in mammals; seven of these have been described for humans.
They are typically divided among three IFN classes: Type I IFN, Type II IFN, and Type III IFN.
IFNs belonging to all IFN classes are very important for fighting viral infections.
Phosphorus is a mineral that makes up one percent of a person's total body weight.
It is the second most abundant mineral in the body and present in every cell.
The main function of phosphorus is in the formation of bones and teeth, and it also plays an important role in how the body uses carbohydrates and fats.
Phosphorous is needed for the body to make protein for the growth, maintenance, and repair of cells and tissues, and also helps the body make ATP, a molecule the body uses to store energy.
The main food sources are meat and milk.
A diet that includes the right amounts of calcium and protein will also provide enough phosphorus.
Fruits and vegetables contain only small amounts of phosphorus.
In the body, almost all phosphorus is combined with oxygen, forming phosphate.
Sucrase is the name given to a number of enzymes that catalyse the hydrolysis of sucrose to fructose and glucose.
The enzyme invertase, which occurs more commonly in plants, also hydrolyzes sucrose but by a different mechanism.
Sucrose intolerance (also known as Congenital Sucrase-Isomaltase Deficiency (CSID) or Sucrase-isomaltase deficiency) occurs when sucrase is not secreted in the small intestine.
With sucrose intolerance, the result of consuming sucrose is excess gas production and often diarrhea and malabsorption.
Lactose intolerance is a related disorder that reflects an individual's inability to hydrolyze the disaccharide lactose.
Sucrase is secreted by the tips of the villi of the epithelium in the small intestine.
Its levels are reduced in response to villi-blunting events such as celiac sprue and the inflammation associated with the disorder.
The levels increase in Pregnancy/Lactation and Diabetes as the villi hypertrophy.
A plant species of the genus artemisia, family asteraceae, that has been used in absinthe.
The oil contains neurotoxic 1-thujone and d-isothujone.
Anti-Müllerian hormone also known as AMH is a protein that, in humans, is encoded by the AMH gene.
It inhibits the development of the Müllerian ducts (paramesonephric ducts) in the male embryo.
It has also been called Müllerian inhibiting factor (MIF), Müllerian inhibiting hormone (MIH), and Müllerian inhibiting substance (MIS).
It is named after Johannes Peter Müller.
In men, inadequate embryonal AMH activity can lead to the Persistent Müllerian duct syndrome (PMDS), in which a rudimentary uterus is present and testes are usually undescended.
The AMH gene (AMH) or the gene (AMH-RII) for its receptor are usually abnormal.
AMH measurements have also become widely used in the evaluation of testicular presence and function in infants with intersex conditions, ambiguous genitalia, and cryptorchidism.
Neural Cell Adhesion Molecule (NCAM, also the cluster of differentiation CD56) is a homophilic binding glycoprotein expressed on the surface of neurons, glia, skeletal muscle and natural killer cells.
NCAM has been implicated as having a role in cell-cell adhesion, neurite outgrowth, synaptic plasticity, and learning and memory.
In anatomic pathology, pathologists make use of CD56 immunohistochemistry to recognize certain tumors.
Normal cells that stain positively for CD56 include NK cells, activated T cells, the brain and cerebellum, and neuroendocrine tissues.
Tumors that are CD56-positive are myeloma, myeloid leukemia, neuroendocrine tumors, Wilms' tumor, neuroblastoma, NK/T cell lymphomas, pancreatic acinar cell carcinoma, pheochromocytoma, paraganglioma, small cell lung carcinoma, and the Ewing's Sarcoma Family of Tumors.
Cocaethylene is the ethyl ester of benzoylecgonine.
It is chemically related to cocaine, which is the corresponding methyl ester.
Cocaethylene is formed in the body when cocaine and alcohol have been taken simultaneously: the transesterification is catalysed by carboxylesterases in the liver.
Cocaethylene has similar euphoric properties to cocaine, but is longer lasting in the body.
Some studies suggest that it is more toxic than cocaine itself, particularly to the heart.
