It contains a linear double-stranded DNA encased in an icosahedral capsid that is surrounded by a viral envelope.
Silver sulfadiazine is typically delivered in a 1% cream or aqueous suspension.
The Oyster mushroom, or Pleurotus ostreatus, is a common edible mushroom
Synthetic cannabinoids interact with the same brain receptors as THC (the active drug present in marijuana) and have been demonstrated to produce similar effects.
M. iowae is resistance to bile salts and many antimicrobials.
Affected birds show signs of depression and ruffled feathers, reduced feed intake, and decreased egg production.
A beta-adrenergic antagonist that has been used in the emergency treatment of cardiac arrhythmias.
The *1C and *1K alleles are associated with decreased CYP1A2 activity with intermediate metabolism when 1 allele is present and slow (poor) metabolism when 2 alleles are present.
Nitrogen exists as a diatomic gas and makes up about 78% of the earth's atmosphere by volume.
Individuals heterozygous for antithrombin deficiency have a fivefold increased risk for venous thrombosis.
Chlamydia trachomatis is one of three bacterial species in the genus Chlamydia, family Chlamydiaceae, class Chlamydiae.
Mutations in this gene lead to several disorders, including dysfibrinogenemia, hypofibrinogenemia, afibrinogenemia and renal amyloidosis.
The posterior- superior angle between the long axis of the mandibular central incisor and the mandibular plane (Constructed Gonion to Menton)
Arginase is an enzyme that hydrolyzes arginine to ornithine and urea.
Blood glucose content is significant in determining an individual's overall state of health.
It is used to treat various types of cancer and some autoimmune disorders.
It is 3.5 times more potent than morphine and is found in mixtures such as "Wow" (with synthetic cathinones).
The enzyme is known to metabolize many xenobiotics, including phenytoin, tolbutamide, ibuprofen and S-warfarin.
Goodfellow and Tippett have observed an interesting association between the Xg^a antigen and CD99.
The gilthead seabream (Sparus aurata) is a warmwater fish found in the Mediterranean and along the eastern Atlantic coastal areas from the United Kingdom to the Canary Islands.
Therefore most hepatitis B diagnostic panels contain HBsAg and total anti-HBc(both IgM and IgG).
One of the ANTI-ARRHYTHMIA AGENTS, it blocks SODIUM CHANNELS and slows conduction within the His-Purkinje system and myocardium.
An isocitric acid value higher than this may be indicative of fruit juice adulteration.
C-peptide, a polypeptide consisting of 31 amino acids (MW~3000), is stored in the secretory granules of the beta cells and released into circulation in equimolar amounts with insulin.
The HII will decrease with chronic blood loss or phlebotomy.
While cytosine deamination is part of normal physiology and signals certain DNA repair pathways, inappropriate deamination can create DNA mutations and has been associated with the development of certain types of solid tumors and lymphoma.
The protease gene and the reverse transcriptase gene of the viral genome are sequenced and mutations identified.
Decreased SAMe levels often occur in the presence of folate and cobalamin (vitamin B12) deficiency.
Associated findings include a positive reagent-strip test for "blood" (actually myoglobin) without the presence of RBCs in the sediment.(Ringsrud 2001)
Synthetic cannabinoids interact with the same brain receptors as THC (the active drug present in marijuana) and have been demonstrated to produce similar effects.
Peripheral sensory neuropathy is a disorder characterized by inflammation or degeneration of the peripheral sensory nerves.
There is a relationship between urinary endogenous steroid metabolites and lower urinary tract function related to the residual vol.
This method results in neutrophils and other polymorphonuclear (PMN) cells which are important in innate immune defense to be obtained.
The characterization of molecules which bring about the adhesion process has been studied extensively to understand the virulence and pathogenesis of the disease caused by the organism.
A narcotic analgesic used to relieve moderate to severe pain, including postoperative pain and the pain of labor.
TGEV can also exist in an endemic form in swine herds where either partial immunity or a concurrent porcine respiratory coronavirus (PRCV) infection is present.
Microscopy is a technique that uses microscopes to examine very small objects, not seen by the naked eye.
The POMT2 gene (protein-O-mannosyltransferase 2) is located on chromosome 14q24.
One of several basic proteins released from EOSINOPHIL cytoplasmic granules.
Veterinary Medicine: Tildipirosin is a macrolide antibiotic used in the treatment and prevention of bovine respiratory disease (BRD) that is administered as a single subcutaneous dose.
Because the blood level of 1.5-AG inversely fluctuates so closely with the blood level of glucose, 1,5-AG is more accurate in detecting short-term blood sugar fluctuations than either HbA1c or fructosamine.
A positive result confirms the presence of this organism in a fecal specimen; a negative result indicates absence of the organism.
Decay accelerating factor (CD55) is a 70 kDa membrane protein that regulates the complement system on the cell surface.
Mycoplasma hypopneumoniae P146 is one of the bacteria's adhesin-like proteins involved in this cell adhesion process.
If the infection is not treated the case fatality rate is 40 to 85%.
There have been no reports of swine to human transmission.
As with any cast, broad casts are due to stasis in the distal collecting tubules, but broad casts are formed in the larger tubules.
Hexamethylphosphoramide, often abbreviated HMPA, is an organophosphorus compound having the formula 3PO.
Halazepam is a benzodiazepine derivative and is marketed under the brand names Alapryl and Pacinone.
Their shape varies from round to oval, with a round or oval nucleus in a central or slightly off-center location.
Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding the different isoforms have been identified.
Anise (Pimpinella anisum, also anís (stressed on the second syllable) and aniseed) is a flowering plant in the family Apiaceae native to the eastern Mediterranean region and Southwest Asia.
PSA is present in small quantities in the serum of normal men, and is often elevated in the presence of prostate cancer and in other prostate disorders.
The cytoplasm contains coarse, round and uniform granules stainable by eosin.
A 302-amino-acid fragment in the alpha chain (672-1663) of C3b.
Phenol red (also known as phenolsulfonphthalein or PSP) is a pH indicator that is frequently used in cell biology laboratories.
2S albumins have a very stable intrinsic structure that is preserved even in harsh environments, such as the gastrointestinal tract where it is believed to initiate an immune response.
Band 3 has two major functions: mechanical support of the cell by linking ankyrin to the cytoskeletal network, and CO2/HCO3- exchange.
The coronary artery segmentation model published in 1975 by the American Heart Association (AHA) divides the coronary arteries into 15 segments for the purposes of evaluating and treating coronary artery disease.
Bile acids (BAs) play a primary role in digesting dietary fats.
Due to its critical function, DHFR is found in all organisms.
It is a powerful cholinesterase used to eradicate insects, birds, mites and ticks.
CA 242 is a tumor marker for sialylated Lewis carbohydrates associated with adenocarcinomas and e-selectin mediated metastatic risk.
In particular, tree nut allergies are potentially life-threatening, rarely outgrown, and appear to be increasing in prevalence.
F-Actin IgG antibodies are found in 52-85% of patients with autoimmune hepatitis (AIH) or chronic active hepatitis and in 22% of patients with primary bilary cirrhosis (PBC).
These chemicals have nearly no history of human use prior to 2010 when they first became available online with dosing recommendations similar to LSD.
Interleukin-2 (IL-2) is a cytokine that regulates the differentiation and proliferation of immune cells.
A chicken (Gallus gallus domesticus) is a type of domesticated bird which is often raised as a type of poultry.
Guavas are native to Central or South America but now grow in many countries.
G proteins are composed of 3 units: alpha, beta and gamma.
Pigs less than 21 days old are most likely to be symptomatic when infected.
As a liquid it has a dark brown color due to impurities, however when distilled it is colorless.
An increase in β-catenin production has been noted in those people who have basal cell carcinoma and leads to the increase in proliferation of related tumors
It is found in most psychedelic mushrooms together with its phosphorylated counterpart psilocybin.
TID is associated with severe coronary artery disease and ST depression on EKG.
There are two primary types, known as Stx1 (also Stx1a or SLT1) and Stx2 (also Stx2a or SLT2).
This gene is localized in the tumor-suppressor gene region and thus it is a candidate gene for malignancies.
It is a central nervous system stimulant that can be injected, smoked, snorted or ingested.
The most common mutation known to be associated with FDB is p.Arg3500Gln
Therefore, assessment of DOCK8 expression on immune cells facilitates the diagnosis of DOCK8 deficiency.
Antibody to single stranded DNA is present in numerous systemic rheumatic diseases (systemic lupus erythematosis, rheumatoid arthritis, chronic active hepatitis, primary biliary cirrhosis).
Rickettsia conorii is one of the etiologic agents of spotted fever rickettsiosis, which encompasses a wide variety of conditions, from mild to severe.
Mutations in the gene for histidase are associated with histidinemia and urocanic aciduria.
The prevalence of latex allergy among health care personnel ranges from 2-25%.
Recall antigens, such as Candida albicans and Tetanus toxoid, are capable of inducing anamnestic (recall) T cell response and stimulating lymphocyte proliferation.
It is a colorless liquid at room temperature, but it is usually handled as a dilute solution where it is used as a disinfectant.
It is used as a surfactant, fluorimetric reagent, and to remove CO2 and H2S from natural gas and other gases.
Histidine ammonia-lyase (or histidase) is an enzyme that converts histidine into ammonia and urocanic acid.
JWH-210 is an analgesic chemical from the naphthoylindole family, which acts as a potent cannabinoid agonist.
Colorless prisms, often in rosettes, that can be very large.
It has relatively strong sedative effects, and may sometimes be used off-label as an over-the-counter sleeping pill in a similar manner to other sedating antihistamines such as diphenhydramine.
They may also be seen in inflammations, such as acute allergic interstitial nephritis, nephrotic syndrome, or post-streptococcal acute glomerulonephritis.
Rickettsia spotted fever group and associated illnesses include R rickettsii (Rocky Mountain spotted fever), R akari (Rickettsialpox), R conorii (Boutonneuse fever), R sibirica (Siberian tick typhus or North Asian tick typhus), R australis (Australian tick typhus), R felis (Flea-borne spotted fever), R japonica (Oriental spotted fever), R africae (African tick bite fever), and R hoogstraalii (unknown pathogenicity).
Purkinje cells are found within the Purkinje layer in the cerebellum.
Infection with T. vaginalis can increase susceptibility to HIV infection.
ABC genes are divided into seven distinct subfamilies (ABC1, MDR/TAP, MRP, ALD, OABP, GCN20, White).
When the light is switched on, a substantial increase of the resting potential occurs ("light peak" or "Lp"), which drops off after a few minutes when the retina adapts to the light.
Pathologic casts are defined as non-hyalin casts, including waxy, fatty, and granular casts as well as any casts that contain cells (WBCs, RBCs, epithelial cells, etc.).
The cultivated plants to which disulfoton is applied include cotton, tobacco, sugar beets, cole crops, peanuts, wheat, ornamental plants, cereal grains, and potatoes.
Anethum graveolens L. is a plant species of the family APIACEAE.
Leishmania tropica is a species of flagellate parasites that infects humans and hyraxes.
It is associated with recurrence of atrial arrhythmias after catheter ablation of AF.
The poisonous mushroom in Japan and China, Podostroma cornu-damae contains six trichothecenes; satratoxin H, roridin E, verrucarin and others.
Isofenphos is an insecticide for vegetables including maize and carrots, for fruits such as bananas, for soils with turfgrass, and for termites in and around buildings.
The molecule is related to cyclohexane ring by replacement of one hydrogen atom by a hydroxyl group.
"Medium" refers to the chain length of the fatty acids.
It is associated with recurrence of atrial arrhythmias after catheter ablation of AF as well as increased risk of cardioembolic stroke.
Mutations in this gene cause beta-ureidopropionase deficiency (BUPD), an inborn error of metabolism characterized by muscular hypotonia, dystonic movements, scoliosis, microcephaly and severe developmental delay.
It is also indicated for treatment of recurrent episodes of herpes simplex in HIV patients.
It is a weak organic acid produced in the liver under conditions of poor metabolism leading to excessive fatty acid breakdown.
Veterinary Medicine: Ceftiofur is an antibiotic of the cephalosporin type (third generation), licensed for use in veterinary medicine.
It has a benzyl side chain and its name comes from its chemical structures that consists of a phenyl group substituted for one of the hydrogens in the side chain of alanine.
In the clinical assay, a known quantity of ecarin is added to the plasma of a patient treated with hirudin.
Abacavir (ABC) is a nucleoside analog reverse transcriptase inhibitor (NRTI) used to treat HIV and AIDS.
Although its concentration in plasma is only about 10 micromolar (uM), even moderate hyperhomocysteinemia is associated with increased incidence of cardiovascular disease and Alzheimer's disease.
Patients with exon 9 mutations are more likely to respond to second line sunitinib than those with other KIT mutations.
Mutations in these regions and others are associated with lactose tolerance.
A second assessment is made late in the hospital stay (within 24-48 hours of discharge) to identify residual problems that require post-hospital follow-up and to facilitate outcome assessment.
This gene encodes nebulin, a giant protein component of the cytoskeletal matrix that coexists with the thick and thin filaments within the sarcomeres of skeletal muscle.
In a population with normal skin, methylparaben is practically non-irritating and non-sensitizing; however, allergic reactions to ingested parabens have been reported Studies indicate that methylparaben applied on the skin reacts with UVB leading to increased skin aging and DNA damage.
Nitrobenzene is a water-insoluble pale yellow oil with an almond-like odor.
In studies on patients with seasonal rhinitis, it was found that Birch, Beech, Alder, Hazel, bog-myrtle and Oak pollens are most important as causes of springtime hay fever.
Some enterococci are intrinsically resistant to β-lactam-based antibiotics (penicillins,cephalosporins,carbapenems), as well as many aminoglycosides.
It is also found in plants and is used pharmacologically as a sympathomimetic.
Me2SO4 is mainly used as a methylating agent in organic synthesis.
Carboxyhemoglobin, a complex of hemoglobin and carbon monoxide, is a marker of exposure to inhaled carbon monoxide (CO).
It is a carbacephem, but it is sometimes grouped together with the second-generation cephalosporin antibiotics.
Pasteurizing and food irradiation are used to kill Salmonella for commercially-produced foodstuffs containing raw eggs such as ice cream.
The most familiar household use of acetone is as the active ingredient in nail polish remover.
A branched-chain essential amino acid that stimulates activity and promotes muscle growth and tissue repair.
14-3-3 proteins are able to easily move between the cytoplasm and the nucleus but are mainly found in the cytoplasm.
Several transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been described for this gene.
The antigens are also found on most epithelial and endothelial cells.
Indicates whether this is the patient's first procedure of a particular type or a repeat or follow-up procedure.
Hexokinases phosphorylate glucose to produce glucose-6-phosphate, thus committing glucose to the glycolytic pathway.
The importance of the Rh antigens in the erythroid membrane is exemplified by the fact that in many examples of auto-immune hemolytic anemia, auto-Rh antibodies are frequently found.
SS is an autoimmune disease that involves an autoimmune attack against the salivary and lacrimal glands.
Pregnanediolone (PDL) is, among other steroids like pregnanetriol (P3), an important marker in the urinary steroid excretion profile for the occurrence of an adrenal 21-hydroxylase-deficiency.
It is the second of the three drugs administered during a lethal injection in the United States.
Protamines are proteins that, in nature, are bound to nuclear material in fish sperm heads
It is synthesized from glycine or threonine and is involved in the biosynthesis of putines, pyrimidines, and other amino acids.
Its chemical formula is C 2 H Cl 3 O .H 2
Magnesium is also added to some breakfast cereals and other fortified foods.
In the context of breast cancer, a count of greater than 5 circulating tumor calls per 7.5 mL predicts a significantly shorter survival than those with a less then 5.
The total combined percent of grade 1 and 2 sperm should be less than 58% to be considered in range.
The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the ferlin family and is a skeletal muscle protein found associated with the sarcolemma.
The large granular lymphocytes are more commonly known as the natural killer cells (NK cells).
Trisomy 18, also called Edwards syndrome, is caused by the presence of three copies of chromosome 18 in each cell rather than two.
CD34+ cell viability is an important determinant of hematopoietic progenitor cell (HPC) transplant success.
Elevated VMA in cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) without a concomitant elevation of urine VMA may be a marker for neuroectodermal brain tumors and could potentially be used to monitor treatment efficacy.
It is secreted by pulmonary and renal endothelial cells ACE degrades also bradykinin, a potent vasodilator, and other vasoactive peptides.
Pancreatic insufficiency occurs when the pancreas cannot produce enough digestive enzymes to break down food in the intestine for absorption.
Approximately 50% of patients with newly diagnosed type 1 diabetes have evidence of anti-GD3 autoantibodies; however, anti-GD3 antibodies have not been found in patients with pre-diabetes, which may indicate that anti-GD3 antibodies are not a primary event in the development of diabetes.
Beta aminoisobutyric acid (BAIB) is a nonprotein amino acid that is an end product of pyrimidine metabolism.
Platelet factor 4 is used to diagnose immune-mediated, heparin-induced thrombocytopenia (Type II HIT).
ABCB1 (also known as MDR1) is one of many ubiquitous adenosine triphosphate (ATP)-binding cassette (ABC) genes.
Tra is a low incidence antigen of the Diego blood group system.
Sphingomyelin phosphodiesterase or simply Sphingomyelinase (SMase) is a hydrolase enzyme that is involved in sphingolipid metabolism reactions.
Arsenic (As, CAS No. 7440-38-2) is a metalloid that exists in both inorganic and organic forms in the environment and is classified as a human carcinogen by the U.S. EPA (Environmental Protection Agency) and IARC (International Agency for Research in Cancer).
Acyl-CoA dehydrogenases can be categorized into three distinct groups based on their specificity for short-, medium-, or long-chain fatty acid acyl-CoA substrates.
Lecithin is a the most abundant phospholipid that makes up the majority of cellular membranes.
Recombinant TNF is used as an immunostimulant under the INN tasonermin.
A porphyrin derivative found in the feces and in urine for patients suffering from PCT (porphyria cutanea tarda).
Pentanes are components of some fuels and are employed as specialty solvents in the laboratory.
The main classes of antidepressants have similar efficacy, but the newer types are generally regarded to have a more benign side-effect profile and less risk of lethality if taken in overdose.
European ash is a common cause of asthma, allergic rhinitis and allergic conjunctivitis, in particular in Central and Northern Europe.
The plant has trailing vines and very large fruit (commonly up to half a metre long) with smooth, thick, green skin, and sometimes darker green stripes.
Cocaethylene has similar euphoric properties to cocaine, but is longer lasting in the body.
Methyl tert-butyl ether, also known as methyl tertiary butyl ether and MTBE, is a chemical compound with molecular formula C5H12O. MTBE is a volatile, flammable and colorless liquid that is immiscible with water.
Collectively, the pesticides derived from hexachlorocyclopentadiene are called the cyclodienes
Phytanic acid derives from the corresponding alcohol, phytol, and is oxidized into pristanic acid.
It is used in many manufacturing applications, including increasing the hardness, toughness, and tensile strength of steel; manufacture of filaments for incandescent light bulbs; and in contact points for automotive and electrical apparatus.
16-Ketoandrostenediol (also known as 16-oxoandrostenediol or 3 beta,17 beta-dihydroxyandrost-5-en-16-one) is a naturally occurring androgenic steroid hormone generated by the adrenal glands.
Lab studies show leukopenia, thrombocytopenia, and elevation of liver transaminases.
Enterococci are Gram-positive cocci that often occur in pairs (diplococci) or short chains, and are difficult to distinguish from streptococci on physical characteristics alone.
Potential targets when testing for PEDv RNA include the nucleocapsid protein (N) gene and the ~2500 bp fragment of the S-gene.
Rats and small marsupials, including bandicoots, are the main carriers.
Aldosterone also stimulates H+ secretion by intercalated cells in the collecting duct, regulating plasma bicarbonate (HCO3-) levels and its acidbase balance.
In cancers, the mutations cause an increase in telomerase activity which contributes to tumorigenesis.
The measurement of 3-Methylhistidine provides an index of the rate of muscle protein breakdown.
Excision repair cross-complementation group 1 (ERCC1) is required for nucleotide excision repair of damaged DNA and is homologous to RAD10.
They are believed to be microtubules that are remnants from a mitotic spindle.
Zika virus is the only FV that infects the human reproductive tract and can be sexually transmitted.
The European eel, Anguilla anguilla, is a species of eel, a snake-like, facultatively catadromous fish.
It has the atomic symbol Sn, atomic number 50, and atomic weight 118.71.
Neutrophil gelatinase-associated lipocalin (NGAL), also known as oncogene 24p3 or lipocalin-2, is a protein that in humans is encoded by the LCN2 gene.
Mutations in this gene have been associated with Cohen syndrome.
Numerous cytoplasmic granules are present in the more mature forms of myelocytes.
Cystines' sulfhydryl group is functional in the activity of many enzymes.
Additional transcript variants have been described, but their full length nature has not been determined.
The first double bond is located at the third carbon from the n end.
Invasive fusariosis primarily affects patients with hematologic malignancies, hematopoietic cell transplant recipients, patients with juvenile idiopathic arthritis and third degree burns.
Visual acuity measured using a Snellen Eye Chart is reported with a numerator of the standard testing distance of 20 and a denominator indicating the distance at which strokes of the smallest letter size viewable subtend at 1 minute of arc.
The DEA has reported that the fentanyl crisis in the United States in the late 2010s has been largely fueled by NSOs .
These 2 cell types are difficult to distinguish by conventional microscopy.
Vascular expression of the receptor participates in the control of blood pressure and its activation promotes the formation of new blood vessels (angiogenesis).
Salmonella is a genus of rod-shaped, Gram-negative, non-spore forming, predominantly motile enterobacteria with diameters around 0.7 to 1.5 µm, lengths from 2 to 5 µm, and flagella which project in all directions (i.e. peritrichous).
This protein thus plays a role in transcription, DNA repair of double-stranded breaks, and recombination.
A spice, which may result in allergy symptoms in sensitised individuals.
Two alternatively spliced transcript variants of this gene, which encode distinct proteins, have been reported.
One of the transcripts produced from this locus, and the antisense transcript, are paternally expressed noncoding RNAs, and may regulate imprinting in this region.
This protein is a bifunctional enzyme with two distinct active sites.
Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been identified for this gene.
The Zaire virus is the type species, which is also the first discovered and the most lethal.
It is expressed in collagen-rich fibrous connective tissues and is involved in osteoblast recruitment, attachment and spreading.
Special consideration including, dietary monitoring of caloric and protein intake, should be given to patients with low protein catabolic rates.
Oral clonidine stimulates growth hormone secretion, and a clonidine stimulation test is used to evaluate growth hormone deficiency.
Pharmacologically it is very similar to other dissociative anesthetics such as tiletamine and phencyclidine (PCP).
Infections with strains that produce milder symptoms have occurred worldwide.
Total iron-binding capacity is a test that measures the extent to which iron-binding sites in the serum can be saturated.
Defects involving genetic mutations altering cytochrome c oxidase (COX) functionality or structure can result in severe, often fatal metabolic disorders.
Common names for abalones also include ear-shells, sea ears, as well as muttonfish or muttonshells in Australia, ormer in Great Britain, perlemoen and venus's-ears in South Africa and pāua in New Zealand
Symptoms of high dose exposure include defecation, urination, fluid accumulation in the lungs, convulsions, and coma.
Enzyme and fluorescent-based assays, which were preceded by the RAST test (Radio-AllergoSorbent Test), are performed to detect allergen-specific IgE in the patient's serum.
The product encoded by this gene belongs to the actin family of proteins, which are highly conserved proteins that play a role in cell motility, structure and integrity.
Total body water can be determined using methods such as flowing afterglow mass spectrometry (FA-MS).
It is a difunctional building block of several important plastics and plastic additives.
Angiotensin II is an eight amino acid peptide formed by Angiotensin Converting Enzyme (ACE) cleavage of Angiotensin I. Angiotensin II is metabolized further to Angiotensin III.
CD82 (Cluster of Differentiation 82) is a human protein encoded by the CD82 gene.
The role of this activated factor IX in the blood coagulation cascade is to activate factor X to its active form through interactions with Ca+2 ions, membrane phospholipids, and factor VIII.
The specific scores assigned to the number of mitoses depends on the size of the HPF.
It is dangerously poisonous to birds, fish, aquatic invertebrates, and honey bees.
Porferdin Factor B is one of the alternate pathway proteins.
It is also synthesized by endothelial cells, which store IL-8 in their storage vesicles, the Weibel-Palade bodies.
Ingestion of triazolam can lead to the following symptoms: hypnotic, amnesic, anxiolytic, sedative, anticonvulsant and muscle relaxant.
High risk HPV types can lead to low-grade cervical cell abnormalities, pre-cancerous cellular abnormalities and anogenital cancer.
They may also play a role in intracellular transport to axons and dendrites.
Resistance to all of the drugs used to treat TB has occurred including the first line of treatment drugs isoniazid, rifampicin, pyrazinamide, and ethambutol.
The presence of rouleaux does not always indicate the presence of a disease.
The disease or injury that initiated the chain of morbid events that led directly and inevitably to death.
MART-1 / Melan-A is a protein antigen found on melanocytes.
In selected cases, the concentrated stem cell preparation is processed to concentrate or eliminate cells found in the collection.
Vitamin B12 (cobalamin) is essential for normal development and survival in humans.
This enzyme is involved in the catabolism of the amino acids tyrosine and phenylalanine.
Delamanid is the first in a new class of anti-mycobacterial agents called bicyclic nitroimidazoles.
vWF cleaving protease inhibitors can decrease the protease activity and/or more rapidly remove the enzyme from the circulation.
The ATP7B gene (ATPase, Cu++ transporting, beta polypeptide) is located on chromosome 13q14.3.
GM-CSF has many beneficial properties including to regulate differentiated white blood cell function, to stimulate macrophages to fight infection and tumors, and to assist the healing and repair of fibroblasts and epidermal cells.
In addition, the different PNS antibodies are associated with certain cancers so the antibody pattern can assist in identifying the specific tumor if it was previously undiagnosed.
These genes produce enzymes that confer resistance to penicillins, cephalosporins and carbapenems.
Ic antiarrhythmic agent used to prevent and treat tachyarrhythmias (abnormal fast rhythms of the heart).
It has an essential role in the normal development of the urogenital system, and it is mutated in a small subset of patients with Wilm's tumors.
Most in the old Pyrethrum genus are reclassified to TANACETUM; some to other ASTERACEAE genera.
In the past, it was estimated that only 1-2% of hospital acquired infections, typically of the respiratory tract, urinary tract, surgical wounds or soft tissues, were due to Serratia marcescens.
Allergy to Apple may frequently induce symptoms of food allergy in sensitised individuals, in particular oral allergy syndrome Itching, tingling and other mild reactions on the oropharyngeal mucosa are the most common complaints after eating raw Apples, and angioedema, urticaria and shock are less common.
It has shown potential as a biomarker for distinguishing between obstructive azoospermia (OA) and non-obstructive azoospermia (NOA)
Other developed countries, such as the UK, have been spared this epidemic, and, in 2005, Singapore managed to halt an epidemic of VRE.
Silk is produced from the cocoons of silk moths and end-parts of cocoons, short fibres, etc, are combined to form silk waste and are utilized as filling material for e.g. bed quilts and winter clothes.
MCTs are widely used for parenteral nutrition in individuals requiring supplemental nutrition.
The human apolipoprotein B mRNA-editing enzyme, catalytic polypeptide-like 3G (APOBEC3G, or hA3G) protein, provides cells with an intracellular antiretroviral activity that is associated with the hypermutation of viral DNA through cytidine deamination.
In severe cases, atrophy of the skeletal muscles is observed, along with a loss of coordination and problems of vision.
A rise in IRF is one of the earliest indicators of bone marrow engraftment or recovery from intensive chemotherapy.
The P1 or P2 phenotype is expressed on over 99% of donor red cells.
Orciprenaline is a moderately selective beta2-adrenergic receptor agonist that stimulates receptors of the smooth muscle in the lungs, uterus, and vasculature supplying skeletal muscle, with minimal or no effect on alpha-adrenergic receptors.
Mushroom may uncommonly induce symptoms of food allergy in sensitised individuals.
Foot-and-mouth disease (FMD, Latin name Aphtae epizooticae), sometimes called hoof-and-mouth disease, is a highly contagious and sometimes fatal viral disease of cattle and pigs.
An autoantibody is an antibody (a type of protein) manufactured by the immune system that is directed against one or more of the individual's own proteins.
Bromelain has widely been used for checking the cross-reactivity between a glycan and other glycoproteins since its MUXF3 carbohydrate chain is found in many plant proteins.
The electrical currents cause muscle cells to contract and nerve cells to relay electrical signals between them.
The lychee (Litchi chinensis, and commonly called litchi, laichi, lichu) is the sole member of the genus Litchi in the soapberry family
Flunitrazepam (formerly marketed under the trade name Rohypnol in North America), is a drug which is a benzodiazepine derivative.
Associated with most B-cell ALL; most mature B-cell neoplasms; Acute monocytoid leukemias
ICS antibodies, especially of type IgG, are associated with paraneoplastic pemphigus (PNP), also known as paraneoplastic autoimmune multiorgan syndrome (PAMS), as well as with other forms of pemphigus including pemphigus foliaceus and pemphigus vulgaris.
Some people develop a hypersensitivity to iodine-containing products and foods.
Galactosylhydroxylysine is released during bone resorption and is a sensitive and specific marker of bone resorption.
There are low levels of p53 in normal cells, but damage to DNA and similar stress signals may precipitate an increase of p53 protein.
Food allergen mix 31 (fx31) contains apple, cherry, plum, peach and pear IgE antibodies.
It differs among species by the amino acid in position 5.
Carbapenems are the most effective treatment against bacteria that produce ESBLs.
The virus can persist outside the body for long periods.
It possesses pharmacological properties similar to other benzodiazepines, but it is generally only used as a sedative.
This region is composed mainly of a polymorphic repeat structure consisting of 3.3 kb repeat units, designated D4Z4.
There is a widespread occurrence in animals, especially in poultry and swine.
Immune complexes can trigger autoimmune disorders if accumulated in various organs in the body leading to cellular dammage and immune complex disease.
Unlike Lyme disease, rash is uncommon, presenting in only 4 out of 51 patients.
GI, GII, GIV and GV are known to infect humans.
Generally speaking, CD22 is a regulatory molecule that prevents the overactivation of the immune system and the development of autoimmune diseases.
Grade 1 sperm wriggle sluggishly and make little forward progress.
Diazinon is toxic if it is inhaled, ingested, or absorbed through the skin.
Also, through the activation of collagenases, ox-LDL contributes to a process which may lead to the rupture of the fibrous plaque.
A five point scale is common but so are a number of other "numeric" ordinal scales.
Ultrasound is routinely used to assess gestational age, fetal weight, and weight percentile.
Other conditions which may give elevated CK-MB values when the diagnosis of myocardial damage is unclear include skeletal muscle trauma, muscular dystrophy, dermatomyositis, Reyes syndrome, rhabdomyolysis, drug overdose, delirium tremens, chronic ethanol poisoning, and myopathic disorders.
Methemoglobin is a form of the oxygen-carrying protein hemoglobin, in which the iron in the heme group is in the Fe3+ state, not the Fe2+ of normal hemoglobin.
The bacterial (CTX-M) gene is targeted to detect CTX-M type beta lactamases, a group of class A extended-spectrum beta-lactamases (ESBLs) that are a common cause of community-acquired infections.
Ascomata are superficial or immersed, perithecial and ostiolate or cleistothecial and non-ostiolate, hairy or glabrous, dark colored.
Galactosylceramidase (or galactocerebrosidase) is an enzyme which removes galactose from ceramide derivatives (galactocerebrosides).
The general population risk of 1p36 deletion is about 1 in 5,000 - 10,000 live births, and does not change with maternal age.
Red blood cells (RBCs) have surface antigens that play a role in determining compatibility for blood transfusions and organ transplants.
Mutations in this gene are associated with autosomal SCID (severe combined immunodeficiency disease).
Due to its more hydrophobic nature, the Aβ42 is the most amyloidogenic form of the peptide.
There are currently no specific anti-viral agents, vaccination or medical prophylaxis available.
The mutated virus has the ability to invade and grow in certain white blood cells, namely macrophages.
The SLC25A20 gene (solute carrier family 25 member 20) is located on chromosome 3p21.31.
Patients with adenylosuccinase deficiency (ADLSD) present with severe psychomotor delay, hypotonia, growth deficiency, autism, and mild facial dysmorphic features, including brachycephaly, prominent metopic sutures, a small nose and low-set ears.
It is encoded by the GRIN1 (Glutamate receptor subunit zeta-1) gene located on chromosome 9q34.3.
In the metric system, the testing distance is measured in meters.
A mercurial compound that has been used as a diuretic but is now superseded by more potent and less toxic drugs.
Galectins bind to certain carbohydrates via specific carbohydrate recognition domains (CRDs) Blood levels of galectin-3 may be increased in patients with certain forms of advanced cancer and other conditions with organ fibrosis.
Other good food sources include red meat, chicken, beans, nuts, certain types of seafood (such as crab and lobster), whole grains, fortified breakfast cereals, and dairy products.
TTR is also a negative acute phase reactive protein and levels decrease in inflammatory states.
The AGXT (alanine-glyoxylate aminotransferase) gene provides instructions for making a liver-specific peroxisomal enzyme, alanine-glyoxylate aminotransferase (AGT).
Control of both venereal and nonvenereal disease is based upon surveillance and antibiotic treatment of contacts.
Essential fatty acids, (EFAs) are fatty acids that humans and other animals must ingest because the body requires them for good health but cannot synthesize them.
Activated ERKs are pleiotropic effectors of cell physiology and play an important role in the control of gene expression involved in the cell division cycle, apoptosis, cell differentiation and cell migration.
The volume of fluid medications that is delivered to a patient via the oral route.
14-3-3 is an important regulator of cellular function including controlling the cycle of the cell, cell growth, differentiation, survival, apoptosis, migration and spreading.
Plasmodium knowlesi has health, social and economic consequences for the regions affected by it.
Strychnine is a very toxic (LD50 = 1 mgkg), colorless crystalline alkaloid used as a pesticide, particularly for killing small vertebrates such as rodents.
Specific effective airway resistance (sReff) is a calculated expression of specific airway resistance (sRaw) assessed by plethysmography.
The most abundant retinyl esters in the body are linoleic acid, oleic acid, palmitic acid, and stearic acid.
On the other hand, phase contrast microscopy leads to easier identification.
Mutations in this gene result in Lesch-Nyhan syndrome or gout.
This terpeno-phenolic compound is found naturally in cannabis, occasionally in significant amounts.
HbE is one of the most common variant of normal hemoglobin.
A dark-gray, metallic element of widespread distribution but occurring in small amounts; atomic number, 22; atomic weight, 47.90; symbol, Ti; specific gravity, 4.5; used for fixation of fractures.
The protein encoded by this gene is a type I integral membrane protein with tyrosine kinase activity.
These virulence genes increase the pathogenicity of EC and encode heat-stable and heat-labile enterotoxins, Shiga toxin 2e, and fimbria, including the F18 fimbria.
A low index value indicates correction (and therefore points to a factor deficiency).
Plasma that is deficient in prekallikrein has been found to be abnormal in thromboplastin formation, kinin generation, evolution of a permeability globulin, and plasmin formation.
This protein alkylation leads to crosslinking of proteins and catenation of polyamines to proteins.
A product of tyrosine metabolism; concentration in urine increases in patients with gastrointestinal diseases.(Dictionary of Organic Compounds)
Clozapine is a serotonin antagonist, with strong binding to 5-HT 2A/2C receptor subtype.
There is limited cross-reactivity between aztreonam and other beta-lactam antibiotics, and it is generally considered safe to admininister aztreonam to patients allergic to penicillin.
The FKRP gene (fukutin related protein) is located on chromosome 19q13.32.
It is associated with fetal trimethadione syndrome, which is also known as paramethadione syndrome.
Other names in common use include 2,3-diphosphoglycerate phosphatase, diphosphoglycerate phosphatase, 2,3-diphosphoglyceric acid phosphatase, 2,3-bisphosphoglycerate phosphatase, and glycerate-2,3-diphosphate phosphatase.
A long-acting barbiturate that depresses most metabolic processes at high doses.
Studies have shown the presence of GalS on the external surface of the myelin sheath, which suggests that anti-GalS auto-antibodies can induce immune demyelination and may play a role in the pathogenesis of motor neuropathies such as Guillain-Barre syndrome (GBS), and in fact, over 60% of GBS patients have been found to have anti-GalS antibodies.
There are 18 different hemagglutinin subtypes and 11 different neuraminidase subtypes.
The apneas (pauses in breathing) must last for at least 10 seconds and are associated with a decrease in blood oxygenation.
In addition, men with the GG genotype at this location are at increased risk of sudden cardiac death.
Prior to 1999, the Chlamydia genus included two clinically relevant species that are presently in the genus Chlamydophila, Chlamydophila pneumoniae and Chlamydophila psittaci.
Dieldrin produces toxic fumes when heated and is a suspected carcinogen.
Glycine is very evolutionarily stable at certain positions of some proteins (for example, in cytochrome c, myoglobin, and hemoglobin), because mutations that change it to an amino acid with a larger side chain could break the protein's structure.
It is a single-chain beta-globulin of molecular weight 80-90,000 found mostly in association with fibrinogen in plasma; plasminogen activators change it to fibrinolysin.
A species of gram-negative, facultatively anaerobic, rod-shaped bacteria normally found in the flora of the mouth and respiratory tract of animals and birds.
Resistance to gancyclovir is conferred by specific point mutations in the UL97 gene,
Occupational exposure to these chemicals can be monitored by measuring urinary metabolite excretion.
Bcl-2 orthologs have been identified in numerous mammals for which complete genome data are available.
The commonly used measure of engine power, the horsepower, is approximately 746 W.
The PSEN1 gene (presenilin 1) is located on chromosome 14q24.3.
Once surfactant is secreted by the type II cells, it must be spread over the remaining type I cellular surface area.
PCR-based methods targeting a conserved region of the HAdV hexon gene are used to detect and identify HAdVs.
The fraction of exhaled NO (FENO) is a promising biomarker for the diagnosis, follow-up and as a guide to therapy in adults and children with asthma.
Solutions with higher glucose or dextrose concentrations remove more fluid from the patient compared to those with lower concentrations due to the gradient that is created.
Triclopyr is a systemic, foliar herbicide in the pyridine group.
Narasin toxicosis is characterized by anorexia, respiratory distress, muscle weakness and death.
Codon 171 codes for either arginine ®, glutamine (Q), histidine (H) or lysine (K).
The first two digits generally refer to the number of carbon atoms in the biphenyl skeleton (for PCBs this is 12), the second two numbers indicate the percentage of chlorine by mass in the mixture.
This gene encodes a protein which contains several motifs including a ski homology region and a SET-binding region in addition to three nuclear localization signals.
Clindamycin together with pyrimethamine has been used as alternative treatment for toxoplasmic encephalitis in AIDS patients.
Trimethoprim is a bacteriostatic antibiotic mainly used in the prophylaxis and treatment of urinary tract infections.
However, double-negative T cells, which are both CD4- and CD8-, also express TCR alpha beta.
The emergence and spread of antibiotic resistance in Enterobacteriaceae are making it difficult to treat serious nosocomial infections and leading to more species becoming resistant to available agents.
The infection is classified as latent when the patient is asymptomatic and the infection is in a non-transmissible state.
Parsley may commonly induce symptoms of food allergy in sensitised individuals, in particular in individuals with allergic rhinitis from a pollen allergy.
The virus can persist outside the body for long periods.
It is also an indicator for free sulfhydryl groups in proteins.
A fecal occult blood test is used to determine whether hidden (occult) blood is present in human feces.
ATP synthase is composed of two linked multi-subunit complexes: the soluble catalytic core, F1, and the membrane-spanning component, Fo, comprising the proton channel.
Sufficient intake of folic acid is believed to reduce this risk by enhancing methylation of homocysteine and its conversion to methionine, thereby compensating for this genetic defect.
Although the physical and chemical properties vary widely across the class, PCBs have low water solubilities and low vapor pressures.
A serotype of SALMONELLA ENTERICA that causes mild PARATYPHOID FEVER in humans.
Cariprazine is one of the newest dopamine-serotonin partial agonists, also known as 'atypical' second generation antipsychotics.
Leprosy is a chronic illness that affects the skin, peripheral nerves, eyes and mucosa of the upper respiratory tract.
The fetus's risk of having trisomy 18 can be estimated based on maternal age, fetal nuchal translucency (NT) thickness, and maternal serum or plasma levels for free beta-human chorionic gonadotropin (beta-hCG) and pregnancy-associated plasma protein-A (PAPP-A).
Short-lived, it is a common pioneer species on abandoned fields and burned areas.
As a major allergen for patients sensitized to pollen of Salsola kali but not Chenopodium album (3), Sal k 1 can be considered an allergenic marker to discriminate among patients allergic to Chenopodiaceae pollens.
Synthetic cannabinoids interact with the same brain receptors as THC (the active drug present in marijuana) and have been demonstrated to produce similar effects.
Everyone needs folic acid, especially women who may get pregnant.
They are found throughout nature in both the free and bound form.
They are a major component of the lower intertidal and sublittoral zones on rocky coasts in temperate and polar waters.
Although cycloguanil is not currently in general use as an antimalarial, the continuing development of resistance to current antimalarial drugs has led to renewed interest in studying the use of cycloguanil in combination with other drugs
The "OXA-like" groups of genes are molecularly similar to and thought to evolve from the original gene for which the group is named.
It is addictive and after prolonged use can cause withdrawal symptoms including convulsions, hallucinations and memory loss.
TC-II saturated with vitamin B12 is known as holo-transcobalamin II (holo-TC-II) or "active" vitamin B12, which can be delivered into all DNA-synthesizing cells.
Mutations in this gene have been found in some forms of deafness and in some families with hidrotic ectodermal dysplasia.
Mutations in this gene have been associated with Parkinson disease-8.
The encoded protein responds to diverse cellular stresses to regulate expression of target genes, thereby inducing cell cycle arrest, apoptosis, senescence, DNA repair, or changes in metabolism.
One or more antiphospholipid antibodies may also be seen with other autoimmune disorders, such as systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE).
Asparagine was first isolated in 1806 from asparagus juice, in which it is abundant--hence its name--becoming the first amino acid to be isolated.
In 2011, the United States Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) recognized the gap in antimicrobials against carbapenemase-producing Enterobacteriaceae (CPE) and made the development of such new antimicrobials among its highest priorities.
In anabolism, water is removed from molecules (through energy requiring enzymatic chemical reactions) in order to grow larger molecules (e.g. starches, triglycerides and proteins for storage of fuels and information).
Alpha thalassemias result from deletions of each of the alpha genes as well as deletions of both HBA2 and HBA1; some nondeletion alpha thalassemias have also been reported.
The beta-carotene content in the blood is often tested if an individual displays retina or bone problems.
Amino acids and proteins are the building blocks of life.
Such disorders usually manifest in early childhood and affect predominantly tissues with high energy demands (brain, heart, muscle).
Amiben (Chloramben) is a selective herbicide used to control the seedlings of broadleaf weeds and annual grasses.
No examples of Yt(a-b-) individuals have been found despite numerous studies.
Normal values for FEV1 and FVC vary based on several factors including age, sex, height, and weight.
C-X-C motif chemokine 13 (CXCL13) also known as B lymphocyte chemoattractant (BLC) is a protein that in humans is encoded by the CXCL13 gene.
Dimethoate is a colorless, crystalline solid cholinesterase inhibitor that kills insects and mites systemically or on contact.
This gene encodes a member of the cytochrome P450 superfamily of enzymes.
As CD23 is soluble it can move freely and interact with cells in plasma.
β-Sitosterol is not recommended for individuals with sitosterolemia, a rare inherited fat storage disease.
Chloramphenicol is a bacteriostatic antibiotic originally derived from the bacterium Streptomyces venezuelae, isolated by David Gottlieb, and introduced into clinical practice in 1949.
The IDUA gene provides instructions for producing an enzyme that is involved in the breakdown of large sugar molecules called glycosaminoglycans (GAGs).
At this gene, "QQ" animals are highly susceptible to Scrapie infection if exposed, "QR" are rarely susceptible, and "RR" are highly resistant.
More than 80% of patients with allergic bronchopulmonary aspergillosis (ABPA) are sensitised to this allergen.
Conversely, hypernatremia can cause lethargy or restlessness, deep tendon reflexes, muscle spasticity and seizures.
Levels of TRH are non-detectable or very low in patients with Hyperthyroidism and Hypothalamic Hypothyroidism.
Veterinary Medicine: Pigs exposed to dietary cadmium develop a microcytic-hypochromic anemia.
Pretomanid is a new drug in the nitroimidazooxazine class that is effective as part of a multi-drug regimen against multidrug-resistant tuberculosis (MDR-TB).
Privet trees are naturalised in Australia and the eastern half of North America.
Its expression is also altered during thyroid hormone depletion and hemodynamic overloading.
It may remain in contaminated soil for up to 20 years.
Pure methane is odorless, but when used commercially is usually mixed with small quantities of odorants, strongly-smelling sulfur compounds such as ethanethiol (also called ethyl mercaptan), to enable the detection of leaks.
BK virus (BKV) is a ubiquitous polyoma virus (belonging to the family Papovaviridae) that is often acquired during early childhood.
The PDCD10 gene (programmed cell death 10) is located on chromosome 3q26.1.
The small intestine, the organ where most food digestion and nutrient absorption take place, produces an enzyme called lactase, which breaks down lactose into two simpler forms of sugar: glucose and galactose.
5-Aminosalicylic acid, sold under the name mesalazine, is a closely related compound that also has medical uses.
The thyroid delivers 20 times more T4 than T3, so T4 is the more relevant analyte except in special cases.
HPV type 56 has been associated with low grade cervical abnormalities, cancer precursors, and anogenital cancers.
Mutations in the TNFRSF1A gene are also associated with elevated risk of multiple sclerosis.
It can be parasitic on a wide range of plants, causing blight or rot of leaves, flowers and fruits.
Broad waxy casts are waxy casts that are wider than ordinary waxy casts.
It also has powerful central nervous system effects similar to the amphetamines and is a drug of abuse.
Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, usually abbreviated to NSAIDs-but also referred to as nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory agents/analgesics (NSAIAs) or nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory medicines (NSAIMs)-are a class of drugs that provide analgesic and antipyretic (fever-reducing) effects, and, in higher doses, anti-inflammatory effects.
A food, which may result in allergy symptoms in sensitized individuals.
Distance between A point and B point, each projected to the Functional Occlusal Plane (line passing through posterior cusp of the maxillary first molar and a line along the occlusion of the maxillary and mandibular premolars and a line perpendicular to it through the averged anterior contact of the first maxillary premolars with the maxillary canine (cuspid)).
Lanosterol is a tetracyclic triterpenoid, the compound from which all steroids are derived.
Elevated adenosine deaminase activities are found in tuberculous pleural and pericardial effusions.
Name of abnormal hemoglobin to be noted in a comment attached to message
LCIS is associated with an eight- to ten-fold increased risk of developing breast cancer in either breast, not only the one where the LCIS was discovered.
Antibodies that inhibit M3R have been found in patients with Sjögren's syndrome (SS).
Monoblasts are normally found in bone marrow and do not appear in the normal peripheral blood.
Methdilazine (Dilosyn, Tacaryl) is a first-generation antihistamine with anticholinergic properties of the phenothiazine class.
Ergot fungi grow on rye and other cereal grains and are known to cause ergotism (also known as ergotoxicosis, ergot poisoning and Saint Anthony's Fire) in humans and animals who ingest the contaminated grains.
The β and γ chains of the IL-2R are members of the type I cytokine receptor family.
The encoded protein enhances androgen receptor (AR) transactivation, and this enhancement can be increased further in the presence of other androgen receptor associated coregulators.
Recent predictions are that the mosquito species A. Albopictus, which can hibernate and survive cool temperatures, will carry ZIKV to more temperate areas of North America, Australia and Southern Europe.
Veterinary Medicine: Brachyspira hyodysenteriae is a loosely coiled, gram-negative, oxygen tolerant, motile, anaerobic spirochete that causes swine dysentery (SD).
Plant proteins can also be high biological value depending on the food and the clinical situation.
A picolinic acid derivative that is used as a herbicide.
The Dombrock system remained a simple two allele system until 1992, when Banks et al. reported that the red cells of the rare Gy(a-) Hy(a-) Jo(a-) individuals were also Do(a-b-).
The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the class-II aminoacyl-tRNA synthetase family.
A potential cause of this shift is the fact that the polysaccharide capsule based vaccine formulated for serogroups A, C, W-135 and Y is ineffective against children under 2 years of age and has only been useful for outbreaks of the disease.
A single nucleotide polymorphism in the PTPN22 gene, c.1858>T, encodes products with different Csk binding affinities.
Tetradecenoylcarnitine is a primary marker for Glutaric acidemia type I and Maternal glutaric acidemia type I.
For cirrhosis, a score of greater than 2 is considered positive while patients with a score of less than 1 are considered unlikely to have cirrhosis.
The summary may include the reason for hospitalization, procedures performed, the care, treatment and services provided, the patient's condition and disposition at discharge, information provided to the patient and family, and provisions for follow-up care.
Subtype J is primarily found in North, Central and West Africa, and the Caribbean Subtype K is limited to the Democratic Republic of Congo and Cameroon.
Fenugreek (Trigonella foenum-graecum) is a plant in the family Fabaceae.
The genus Salmo salar is from the northern Atlantic, the others from the Pacific.
The IDUA gene, located on chromosome 4p16.3, encodes alpha-L-iduronidase, a lysosomal enzyme that hydrolyzes the terminal alpha-L-iduronic acid residues of two glycosaminoglycans, dermatan sulfate and heparan sulfate.
Celery can cause oral symptoms (aphthae, stomatitis, swelling of the lips or tongue, pharyngitis, hoarseness and laryngeal oedema) and can often also induce acute generalised symptoms, such as severe laryngeal oedema, bronchial asthma, urticaria or allergic shock.
Mevaolonic acid exists in equilibrium with mevalolactone, which is formed by internal condensation of mevalonic acid's terminal alcohol and carboxylic acid functional groups.
German Camomile is native to Europe and western Asia and naturalised in North America.
Defects in this gene cause peroxisome biogenesis disorders (PBDs), which are characterized by multiple defects in peroxisome function.
Loss of imprinting of IGF2 is a common feature in tumors seen in Beckwith-Wiedemann syndrome.
A specific enantiomer of p-hydroxymandelic aicd ((R)-(-)-p-hydroxymandelic -- also called pisolithin B) has been shown to exhibit antifungal properties.
This colorless liquid is a useful polar aprotic solvent and additive in organic synthesis.
Mutations in this gene have been associated with thrombophilia due to protein C deficiency, neonatal purpura fulminans, and recurrent venous thrombosis.
High concentrations of the largest alpha-1 HDL provides the highest negative predictor for CVD.Measuring these subclasses gives a more precise risk evaluation for CVD than just the level of HDL.
Rotavirus B (RVB) infect both humans and animals, and were the cause of severe diarrheal epidemics in China between 1982 and 1987.
PCV is a member of the virus family Circoviridae and are the smallest viruses replicating autonomously in eukaryotic cells utilizing the host polymerase for genome amplification.
The fatality rate in humans infected with EEEV is 35%.
A racemic mixture with a 1:1 ratio of the r-isomer, levalbuterol, and s-albuterol.
An appropriate reference standard of the fluid intake needs for an individual patient.
In cell biology it is used to synchronize the cells in S phase.
In popular culture, MDMA has become widely known as "ecstasy" (shortened to "E", "X", or "XTC").
It was introduced by DuPont as an insecticide in 1935.
Depending on the tissue type, androstenedione can serve as a precursor to testosterone or to estrone and estradiol.
The titin protein plays a role in the assembly and functioning of striated muscles by connecting individual microfilaments, and may play a role in chromosome condensation and segregation during mitosis in non-muscle cells.
Mutations in this gene are associated with carnitine-acylcarnitine translocase deficiency, which can cause a variety of pathological conditions such as hypoglycemia, cardiac arrest, hepatomegaly, hepatic dysfunction and muscle weakness, and is usually lethal in new born and infants.
Meadow Foxtail grass pollen may induce asthma, allergic rhinitis and allergic conjunctivitis.
Dodecanedioic acid is a dicarboxylic acid mainly used in antiseptics, top-grade coatings, painting materials, corrosion inhibitor, surfactant, and engineering plastics.
Benzoylecgonine remains in the body for a few days and is commonly used as a marker in drug tests.
Iron homeostasis diseases are common and may be attributed to iron deficiency or iron overload.
Folic acid is a B vitamin (Vitamin B9) and helps the body make healthy new cells.
Haloperidol is a dopamine antagonist of the typical antipsychotic class of medications.
This translocaiton is a variant of translocations t(2;8)(p12;q24) IGK/MYC and t(8;22)(q24;q11) IGL/MYC, all of which share a breakpoint in 8q24 (C-MYC locus) and present the same clinical significance.
Molybdenum is thought to be involved in many important biological processes, including development of the nervous system, waste processing in the kidneys, and energy production in cells.
There are various methods for determining the clotting time, including manual methods such as Lee White and Sukharev, thromboelastography, and heparin protamine titration.
These genes are carried on a mobile genetic element called the staphylococcal cassette chromosome mec (SCCmec), which integrates at an open reading frame (orfX) in the bacterial genome.
The Bloom syndrome gene product is related to the RecQ subset of DExH box-containing DNA helicases and has both DNA-stimulated ATPase and ATP-dependent DNA helicase activities.
A drug is a non-dietary substance taken with the intent to change the structure or fuction of the body.
Insulin plays a major role in the regulation of glucose metabolism, generally promoting the cellular utilization of glucose.
Immune disorders associated with CARD11 include specific types of severe combined immunodeficiency (SCID) and B-cell expansion with NF-κB and T-cell anergy (BENTA).
Mutations in this gene have been associated with somatic rectal cancer, follicular thyroid cancer, autoimmune lymphoproliferative syndrome, Noonan syndrome, and juvenile myelomonocytic leukemia.
The retinoic acid induced 1 (RAI1) gene, located in the 17p11.2 region, is the causative gene for Smith-Magenis syndrome (SMS) and Potocki-Lupski syndrome (PTLS).
tert-Butyl acetate, or t-butyl acetate is a colorless flammable liquid with a camphor- or blueberry-like smell.
Fibers with identifiable cross striations are counted microscopically to assess the possibility of malabsorption syndromes, pancreatic exocrine dysfunction, or gastrocolic fistula.
One study reports on occupational asthma that was caused by allergy to Pigs' urine.
In biochemistry, indoleamines are substituted indole compounds that contain an amino group.
If untreated, this disorder can lead to breathing problems, convulsions, coma, and death.
A Watt is equivalent to one joule (J) per second (s), W=J/s.
This gene encodes a member of the cytochrome P450 superfamily of enzymes.
3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaric acid (also known as meglutol, 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaric acid, β-hydroxy-β-methylglutaric acid, and dicrotalic acid) is a hypolipidemic agent.
Muscarinic acetylcholine receptors can be blocked by the drugs atropine and scopolamine.
This commercially important oxide of arsenic is the main precursor to other arsenic compounds, including organoarsenic compounds.
They have a distinct flavour due to their high sugar content.
A colorless liquid with a sharp burning taste and slight odor.
This process occurs in the pulmonary capillaries adjacent to the alveoli of the lungs.
Myelopoiesis is the regulated formation of myeloid cells, including eosinophilic granulocytes, basophilic granulocytes, neutrophilic granulocytes, and monocytes.
So, any immunoglobulins found in the deceased pig is an indication that an infectious agent most likely caused its demise, rather than an environmental or non-infectious cause.
Mirtazapine (Remeron, Avanza, Zispin, Reflex) is a tetracyclic antidepressant (TeCA) used primarily in the treatment of depression.
It grows in moldy hay, grain, bagasse (sugar cane waste) and vegetable compost, and is usually found in closed barns, silos, and grain mills.
Such patients are known to have high plasma concentrations of normeperidine.
Some intestinal bacteria produce deuteroporphyrin which contribute significantly to total fecal porphyrin levels.
The SDHA gene (succinate dehydrogenase complex flavoprotein subunit A) is located on chromosome 5p15.
The normal range of platelets is 150,000 to 450,000 platelets/uL. Lower than normal platelet counts can lead to increased bleeding and is caused by a number of factors including: chemotherapy, autoimmune disorders and some medications.
Pyruvate dehydrogenase (PDH) deficiency is a congenital degenerative metabolic disease resulting from a mutation of the pyruvate dehydrogenase complex (PDC) located on the X chromosome.
It is calculated based on measurements from EKG, phonocardiogram, brachial artery waveform, and ankle artery waveform.
FcεRI is found on epidermal Langerhans cells, eosinophils, mast cells and basophils.
Goosefoot pollen can induce asthma, allergic rhinitis and allergic conjunctivitis
Of the five genera in the family, only influenza A virus (IAV), influenza B and C viruses are medically relevant to humans.
The type species of ALPHAVIRUS normally transmitted to birds by CULEX mosquitoes in Egypt, South Africa, India, Malaya, the Philippines, and Australia.
The original brand, Floxin, has been discontinued by the manufacturer in the United States in 2009, though generic equivalents continue to be available.
Specific IgE-antibodies to chicken have been demonstrated in several studies on patients with bronchial asthma, rhinoconjunctivitis, or atopic dermatitis.
Acanthamoeba species are ubiquitous soil and freshwater protozoa that have been associated with infections of the human brain, skin, lungs and eyes.
Mycobacterium avium is a common environmental organism that causes significant cross reaction with Mycobacterium bovis and must, therefore, must have a control.
Pinus elliottii, commonly known as the Slash Pine, is a pine native to the southeastern United States, from southern South Carolina west to southeastern Louisiana, and south to the Florida Keys
Novobiocin is a coumarin antibiotic used to treat Staphylococcus epidermidis.
When the adhesive property of desmosomes fails disease processes such as pemphigus vulgaris can develop.
Detects sequence variations in the Transthyretin gene used in detection of Familial Amyloid Cardiomyopathy and Familial Amyloid Polyneuropathy.
The other PAI, plasminogen activator inhibitor-2 (PAI-2) is secreted by the placenta and only present in significant amounts during pregnancy.
The risk for the fetus can be derived from the general population risk as well as prenatal genetic testing of fetal DNA.
The P146 gene is endoproteolytically processed, generating at least nine gene fragments.
Inorganic arsenic compounds are thought to be more toxic compared to organic arsenic compounds, while arsine gas is the most toxic.
Although KIF6 is not directly related to lipid metabolism, there is an association between KIF6 variants and increased risk for coronary heart disease.
This protein likely functions as a monomer and is predicted to localize to the mitochondrial matrix.
A pH value of exactly 7 is a neutral substance.
Moderate elevations (e.g. < 3-fold) are more often due to medications or environmental factors.
The "Seizure Disorder Action Plan" is a communication tool medical providers use to inform school staff of a patient's seizure disorder, treatment protocol and recommended response to seizures.
Varieties within and between species can cross-pollinate to produce hybrids: hence the great number of shapes and sizes.
It is produced for reaction with polyols to form polyurethanes.
This gene encodes a member of the eyes absent (EYA) family of proteins.
Sesame is grown primarily for its oil-rich seeds, which come in a variety of colors.
Diazepam is used for the management of anxiety disorders, as an adjunct for the relief of skeletal muscle spasm and for convulsive disorders/status epilepticus, and as a minor tranquilizer or sedative.
Many institutions have a legal department who can be involved in addressing legal rights, responsibilities, and responses to some type of legal action initiated from external sources.
Urine citrate levels may also be decreased with severe muscular activity, hypoparathyroidism, diabetes, and chronic renal failure.
Its main use now is in eye drops or ointment for bacterial conjunctivitis.
These enzymes remove bivalent calcium ions from eukaryotic cells against very large concentration gradients and play a critical role in intracellular calcium homeostasis.
The Procedure Note is created immediately following a non-operative procedure and records the indications for the procedure and, when applicable, post-procedure diagnosis, pertinent events of the procedure, and the patient's tolerance of the procedure.
There is no advantage to using thioacetazone if the regimen used already contains ethambutol, but many countries in sub-Saharan Africa still use thioacetazone because it is extremely cheap.
It manifests as vesicle formation in sun-exposed areas, particularly the dorsum of the hands, A finding that is virtually diagnostic of PCT is the presence of isocoproporphyrin in stool.
Transmission to humans is usually through aerosols of infected water sources such as fountains, misting systems, and drinking water.
Some authorities think that it may be a cultivar of P. orientalis.
Salmon live in both the Atlantic and Pacific Oceans, as well as the Great Lakes and other land locked lakes.
Most commonly (especially when the increase in size is mild, and just above normal range)
Alternative splicing and alternative promoter usage result in multiple transcript variants.
These psychotropic responses are related to D-cycloserine's action as a partial agonist of the neuronal NMDA receptor for glutamate and have been examined in implications with sensory-related fear extinction in the amygdala.
Small dense low-density lipoprotein (sdLDL) is a significant marker used to predict cardiovascular disease (CVD).
It is a precursor to the rice herbicide fluorodifen and the pesticide parathion.
Approximately 30% of a given dose of phendimetrazine is metabolized into phenmetrazine, which may account for part of its anorectic effect, and probably also influences abuse potential; individuals who metabolise a greater proportion of phendimetrazine into phenmetrazine are more likely to develop problems with dependence and addiction.
Significant rise in IgG may not always be demonstrated since peak levels may be reached before the first sample is collected; therefore, both IgA and IgM antibody levels should be measured to diagnose active disease.
This and other metabolites are later excreted in urine as glucuronides.
The KRIT1 gene (KRIT1, ankyrin repeat containing) is located on chromosome 7q21.2.
They are not particularly attracted by food and are not often in contact with man.
The rate at which a pacemaker delivers stimuli to the heart
They are originated from furan derivatives found in food prepared by strong heating.
In the 1980s, recreational drug users discovered that combining pentazocine with the antihistamine tripellenamine (most commonly dispensed under the brand name Pyribenzamine) produced a euphoric sensation much like that brought on by heroin, and users who were already addicted to the latter often used this combination when heroin was unavailable to them.
They are also required for proper skeletal and central nervous system development in fetuses and infants.
Salicornia species are native to North America, Europe, South Africa and South Asia.
A group of disorders which have in common elevations of tyrosine in the blood and urine secondary to an enzyme deficiency.
Ambrosia psilostachya is a species of ragweed known by the common names Cuman ragweed, perennial ragweed, and western ragweed.
It is orange, yellow, or white in color and mild in flavor, with a medium-firm consistency, and melts easily.
A quinazoline-sulfonamide that is considered a thiazide-like diuretic which is long-acting so useful in chronic RENAL FAILURE.
It arises from a qualitative or quantitative deficiency of von Willebrand factor (vWF), a multimeric protein that is required for platelet adhesion.
High levels of 5a-tetrahydrocorticosterone are a warning sign of hypertension.
An enzyme that catalyzes the synthesis of S-adenosylmethionine from methionine and ATP. .
All of the species are genetically distinct and include Candida guilliermondii, Candida fermentati, Candida carpophila, and Candida xestobiiis.
It is a soft silvery-gold alkali metal with a melting point of 28 °C which makes it one of the metals that are liquid at or near room temperature.
P-Xylene is produced by catalytic reforming and separated in a series of distillation and reaction processes from m-xylene, o-xylene and ethylbenzene.
Cultivated Wheat is of uncertain origin, perhaps coming from the Middle East.
In contrast to other MBD family members, MECP2 is X-linked and subject to X inactivation.
Phase entropy, which is an index of disorder reported on a scale of 0-1 (0-100%), with 0 meaning complete order and 1 meaning complete disorder.
It is native to the Mediterranean region, but grows throughout Europe and the Middle East.
Velvet grass is native and common to most of Europe, though it is absent in the northernmost regions.
Mitotic activity is assessed as the number of mitoses per 10 high power fields (HPF), with increasing mitotic activity being an indicator of more aggressive cancer.
Palmitoyl protein thioesterases are enzymes that remove thioester-linked fatty acyl groups such as palmitate from modified cysteine residues in proteins or peptides during lysosomal degradation.
Since receiving FDA approval in 1975, it has been linked with 21 cases of liver failure, of which 13 resulted in liver replacement or death.
Transaldolase is an enzyme of the non-oxidative phase of the pentose phosphate pathway, which has two metabolic functions: (1) generation of nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate (reduced NADPH), for reductive biosynthesis, and (2) formation of ribose which is an essential component of ATP, DNA, and RNA.
Chromosome 9p21 g.22124478A>G (rs10757278) is associated with increased risk of atherosclerosis, myocardial infarction, and stroke.
Protonitazene is a benzimidazole derivative with extremely potent opioid effects, over 100 times more potent than heroin.
Its principal toxic side effect is axonal degeneration resulting in peripheral neuropathy.
Approximately 85% of primary genital HSV infections and 99% of recurrent disease are caused by HSV-2.
Mutations in this gene are associated with agenesis of the corpus callosum with peripheral neuropathy.
Protein S deficiency is associated with recurrent venous thromboembolic disease.
Newborn screening has been adopted by most countries around the world, though the lists of screened diseases vary widely.
The identification of this mutation and its effects have led to the creation of targeted therapeutics that inhibit BRAF activity and have been associated with short-term improvement, but long-term remission usually does not occur due to acquired resistance to BRAF inhibitors.
It also enhances B cell survival, proliferation, and antibody production.
D-ser is produced from L-serine by the enzyme serine racemase.
This gene is a classical cadherin from the cadherin superfamily.
TRBV repertoire analysis is used to determine the number of gene segments and their relative frequency as expressed by an individual.
Sandfly fever Sicilian virus (SFSV) was identified in Italy in 1943 and belongs to family Phenuiviridae, genus Phlebovirus.
Chromosome region 4q12 rearrangements are associated with myeloid and lymphoid neoplasms due to disruption of the PDGFRA and/or FGFR1 genes.
UL16 is a protein that binds to the ligand NDG2D which is a surface receptor on NK cells and, when blocked, prevents the CMV infected cell from apoptotic signaling to NK cells to destroy it.
Diagnosis is usually based on a sputum Gram stain and culture although blood or cerebrospinal fluid may be cultured.
Once bound, T20 prevents structural changes to the virus and keeps it from fusing with the cell membrane.(Manual of Clinical Microbiology, 11th edition, James H. Jorgensen; Karen C. Carroll; Guido Funke; Michael A Pfaller; Marie Louise Landry; Sandra S. Richter; David W. Warnock) T20 is very effective when combined with other anti-viral drugs for patients in the early stages of HIV and in patients with resistance to other antiviral drugs.
Grade 3 sperm move in a straight line at a reasonable speed and can home in on an egg accurately.
A commercially important species of salmon in the family salmonidae, order salmoniformes, which occurs in the North Atlantic.
MAM-2201 is similar to AM-2201 but with an added methyl ring.
The white crystalline form is commonly the hydrochloride salt, diacetylmorphine hydrochloride.
Clonidine can also be used in the treatment of Tourette syndrome.
The Knops blood group system is a system of antigens located on this protein.
Allo-Pregnanediolone (allo-PDL, Mw=334,5, systematic name: 5-alpha-pregnan-3-alpha,17-alpha-diol-20-one) may be found in steroid analysis in urine and, among other steroids, is an important marker in the urinary steroid excretion profile for the occurrence of an adrenal 21-hydroxylase-deficiency.
Powassan virus is transmitted by I.cookei among small mammals in eastern Canada and the United States, where it has been responsible for 20 recognized cases of human disease.
Spondylocladium is a mold that is found in moist and damp environment, often found on plants and around window sills and air conditioning ducts.
The red harvester ant (Pogonomyrmex barbatus) is a large (5-7 millimetres) ant common in the southwest United States.
It is injected in patients to induce gallbladder contraction and/or pancreatic secretion.
Recent studies confirm that rotavirus infection can also extend beyond the intestine.
This reference standard base is then compared to the patient's estimated total fat intake and used to develop the nutrition prescription.
It functions as a catalyst in the reaction between adenine and phosphoribosyl pyrophosphate (PRPP) to form AMP.
Estrone sulfate is important in health and disease beause of its conversion to estrone sulfate, a long-lived derivative of estrone.
A serotype of Salmonella enterica that is a frequent agent of Salmonella gastroenteritis in humans.
Previously another CYP3A gene, CYP3A3, was thought to exist; however, it is now thought that this sequence represents a transcript variant of CYP3A4.
Groups D, E, F, and G are found only in animals.
Its use in the production of glycol benzoates for the application of plasticizer in adhesive formulations is increasing.
Two other ketones, 3-pentanone and methyl isopropyl ketone are isomers of 2-pentanone.
Severe PIA can lead to necrotizing enteritis with coagulative necrosis of the adenomatous mucosa.
It is still used to treat most seizures except for absence seizure types.
There are more expensive wine vinegars that are made from individual varieties of wine, such as Champagne, Sherry, or pinot grigio.
Therefore, plasma transcortin levels increase during pregnancy, and are decreased in cirrhosis.
The overlap of allergen specificity between the groups seems to be moderate or even small.
This inactive complex is not transported to the nucleus, where it is needed to regulate cell growth and the activity of certain genes.
Barth syndrome, a rare genetic disorder, is a mutation in the gene coding for tafazzin, an enzyme involved in the biosynthesis of cardiolipin.
As of early 2017, eravacycline is being studied in phase 3 clinical trials.
Currently circulating influenza B viruses belong to one of two lineages: B/Yamagata and B/Victoria.
The clinically relevant species, Trichomonas vaginalis, causes a sexually transmitted disease that is more commonly symptomatic in females.
Bile acids are steroid acids found predominantly in bile of mammals.
Pepsin may uncommonly induce symptoms of occupational allergy, in particular asthma, in sensitised individuals
Measures the clotting time from the activation of factor VII.
Scedosporium apiospermum is a common filamentous fungus that is present in soil, polluted waters, and sewage throughout the world.
The active form of vitamin D is 1alpha, 25-dihydroxyvitamin D or 1,25(OH2)D (when D is used without a subscript it refers to either D2 or D3).
Indicates that the access to patient information is restricted due to governmental or organizational regulations.
It affects one in five people, and prevalence increases with age.
Pyridoxal 5' phosphate (PLP) and pyridoxamine 5' phosphate (PMP) are the active coenzyme forms of vitamin B6.
In preparation for breathing air, fetuses begin making surfactant between 24 and 28 weeks gestation.
2-Heptanone, or methyl n-amyl ketone, is a ketone with the molecular formula C7H14O.
Shiga toxin producing E. coli (STEC) is also known as enterohemorrhagic E. coli (EHEC) and verotocix E. coli (VTEC).
The ATP7A gene (ATPase, Cu++ transporting, alpha polypeptide) is located on chromosome Xq21.1.
It works by lowering the level of abnormal electrical activity in the brain.
Neoplasms that are less often associated with CAR include bladder, prostate, pancreatic, small bowel, thymus, thyroid and colon.
There are at least 5 traditional serotypes (SEA,SEB,SEC,SED, SEE), and some more recent additions (SEG,H and I).
Transmission of the classical scrapie agent is not completely understood but apparently healthy sheep infected with the agent can transmit disease.
In approximately five percent of the population, the leptin level does not reflect the BMI.
Allergies to dust mites are associated with allergic rhinitis and asthma.
A plant species in the genus SAMBUCUS, known for the elderberry fruit.
Interleukin-2 (IL-2) is an interleukin, a type of cytokine immune system signaling molecule, which is a leukocytotrophic hormone that is instrumental in the body's natural response to microbial infection and in discriminating between foreign (non-self) and self.
The encapsulated type b H influenza is the most virulent type of haemophilus and can penetrate the capillaries, after which it travels to the meninges and can lead to meningitis in children under two.
A developmentally regulated switch between fetal/neonatal and adult troponin T type 3 isoforms occurs.
These are sometimes confused with canker sores or aphthous ulcers, which have a similar appearance; these appear inside the mouth and are not caused by the herpes simplex virus.
16-Beta,18-dihydroxydehydroepiandrosterone is a steroid metabolite found in urine and may be elevated in newborns with 3-Beta Hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase deficiency.
Its main uses are in intensive care medicine (pneumonia, peritonitis), some diabetes-related foot infections and empirical therapy in febrile neutropenia (e.g. after chemotherapy).
Sialophorin (leukosialin, CD43), also known as SPN, is a human gene.
In eukaryotic cells the cytoplasm contains organelles, such as mitochondria, that are filled with liquid kept separate from the rest of the cytoplasm by biological membranes.
The presence of D816V in multiple cells lines, including mast cells, bone marrow myeloid cells, and lymphoid cells, is also associated with a greater risk of disease progression.
More than 50 different mutations in the APP gene can cause early-onset Alzheimer disease, which begins before age 65.
Influenza C viruses are known to infect humans and pigs, giving them influenza.
Most garden Bougainvilleas are hybrids of Bougainvillea spectabilis (B. Brasiliensis) and B. glabra.
CMV is transmitted in urine, saliva, blood, tears, semen and breast milk by direct contact.
Influenza virus from the family Orthomyxoviridae are enveloped negative-strand RNA viruses with segmented genomes containing seven to eight gene segments.
It is extremely toxic or fatal if inhaled or ingested and can cause serious burns if it comes in contact with the skin or eyes.
DOET, HECATE, or 2,5-dimethoxy -4-ethyl amphetamine is an analogue of DOM, and is the three-carbon chain homologue to 2C-E. It produces hallucinogenic, psychedelic, and entheogenic effects.
Intrinsic factor is a glycoprotein produced by the parietal cells of the stomach.
The Continuity Principle states that in the absence of a leak or additional flow into a conduit, the flow rate will be constant along the length of the conduit, whether the conduit is the heart or the regurgitant jet.
The mitochondrially-encoded subunits function in electron transfer, and the nuclear-encoded subunits may function in the regulation and assembly of the complex.
A desmosomal cadherin that is an autoantigen in the acquired skin disorder PEMPHIGUS VULGARIS.
A central nervous system stimulant used most commonly in the treatment of attention-deficit disorders in children and for narcolepsy.
Defects in this gene are also associated with Senior-Loken syndrome type 1, also referred to as juvenile nephronophthisis with Leber amaurosis, which is characterized by kidney and eye disease, and with Joubert syndrome type 4, which is characterized by cerebellar ataxia, oculomotor apraxia, psychomotor delay and neonatal breathing abnormalities, sometimes including retinal dystrophy and renal disease.
Apoliprotein C interacts with very-low density lipoproteins (VLDLs) and has several forms, including C-I, C-II and C-III, which are encoded by the APOC1, APOC2 and APOC3 genes, respectively.
When no mutation is found in the SPAST or ALT1 genes, then mutation analysis may be performed in the REEP1 (SPG31) and NIPA1 genes.
The Fanconi anemia complementation group (FANC) currently includes FANCA, FANCB, FANCC, FANCD1 (also called BRCA2), FANCD2, FANCE, FANCF, FANCG, FANCI, FANCJ (also called BRIP1), FANCL, FANCM and FANCN (also called PALB2).
BiPAP® delivers two levels of pressure by mask in response to patient flow.
Liver transplants are performed in patients with liver dysfunction due to chronic liver disease and acute liver failure.
Ciliated cells are found in the respiratory system, including air passages (like the nose), and in the uterus and Fallopian tubes of females.
Doxylamine is also used in combination with the analgesics paracetamol (acetaminophen) and codeine as an analgesic/calmative preparation, and is prescribed in combination with vitamin B6 (pyridoxine) to prevent morning sickness in pregnant women.
Multiple transcript variants encoding two different isoforms have been found for this gene.
Lysophospholipids have a role in lipid signaling by acting on lysophospholipid receptors (LPL-R).
Expansion of a hexanucleotide repeat in non-coding sequence between alternate 5' exons in transcripts from this gene is associated with 9p-linked ALS (amyotrophic lateral sclerosis) and FTD (frontotemporal dementia).
But in the familes Muridae and Cricetidae are many wild species of Mouse, and rarer commensals such as the Doormouse.
This process is referred to as crosstalk between EGFR and IGF-1R. It is further implicated in breast cancer by increasing the metastatic potential of the original tumour by inferring the ability to promote vascularisation.
The N terminal region is required for function and deletion of 5 N-terminal peptides results in a loss of function.
It has less sedative effect than some other members of this therapeutic group.
Glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) is an intermediate filament (IF) protein highly expressed in the central nervous system (CNS), almost exclusively in astrocytes, as well as in the peripheral nervous system (PNS).
They digest excess or worn-out organelles, food particles, and engulfed viruses or bacteria
Barley is the fourth most important grain in the world, after Wheat, Maize and Rice.
Nateglinide (INN, trade name Starlix) is a drug for the treatment of type 2 diabetes.
Human monocytic ehrlichiosis is a tick-borne disease caused by rickettsial-like agents.
In addition to melanoma, BRAF mutations have been associated with a range of other cancers, including colorectal cancer (CRC), non-small-cell lung cancer (NSCLC), thyroid cancer, hairy cell leukemia (HCL), and multiple myeloma.
The classes of BONE MARROW-derived blood cells in the monocytic series (MONOCYTES and their precursors) and granulocytic series (GRANULOCYTES and their precursors).
Common and species-restricted epitopes have also been observed on the major cat and dog allergens Fel d 1 and Can f 1.
Vitamin D3 inhibits lipid peroxidation in rat hepatocytes in vivo, iron-dependent lipid peroxidation in liposomes and modulates cellular antioxidant defense in lymphoma-bearing mice.
Essential fatty acids should not be confused with essential oils, which are "essential" in the sense of being a concentrated essence.
Hydrogen chloride gas and hydrochloric acid are important in technology and industry.
When COMPLEMENT C1Q is bound to antibodies, the changed tertiary structure causes autolytic activation of complement C1r which is cleaved into two chains, A (heavy) and B (light, the serine protease), connected by disulfide bonds.
A herbicide is a pesticide used to kill unwanted plants.
In women, infection with TV is a possible risk factor for developing cervical neoplasia, post-operative infections, adverse pregnancy outcomes, atypical pelvic inflammatory disease and infertility.
Because only a fraction of dietary magnesium is generally absorbed, high amounts of magnesium in the diet can cause an osmotic diarrhea in the animal.
Unlike other species of Candida, C glabarata has a nondimorphic blastoconicial morphology and a haploid genome.
Comparative function describes whether the function is stable, improved, or worse compared to the previous assessment.
Reactions can be both of the immediate and/or delayed type.
Malting is the controlled germination of cereals, followed by the termination of this process by the application of heat.
The resulting soft, brittle, lightweight, black, porous material resembles coal and is 85% to 98% carbon with the remainder consisting of volatile chemicals and ash.
Acute kidney injury (AKI), formerly known as acute renal failure, describes the rapid loss of the kidney's ability to excrete urine.
Multiple transcript variants encoding several different isoforms have been found for this gene.
It causes borreliosis, a zoonotic, vector-borne disease transmitted primarily by ticks and some by lice, depending on the species.
Slightly greater amounts can be found in the CSF of some adults with neurological disorders.
The myeloblast is a unipotent stem cell, which will differentiate into one of the effectors of the Granulocyte series.
Neuroblastoma 84 (NB84) monoclonal antibody is a useful biomarker for the differential diagnosis of neuroblastoma and other small round cell tumors.
Direct or indirect contact with bird allergens may cause sensitization.
Ingestion of Lemon may result in allergic reactions, including food allergy, allergic rhinoconjunctivitis, atopic dermatitis and anaphylaxis.
This testing does not diagnosis Scrapie, but is an important tool for selecting genetically resistant animals for breeding and eradication.
A pseudogene corresponding to this gene is found on chromosome 3p.
A lot of alcohol makes it hard for the body to absorb thiamin from foods.
The LAMB3 gene (laminin subunit beta 3) is located on chromosome 1q32.
An ester of AMPICILLIN which is readily hydrolysed on absorption to release ampicillin.
Mexacarbate may be fatal if swallowed and causes irreversible damage if it comes in contact with the eyes.
Genetic testing is performed to identifying patients who are poor, intermediate, extensive, or ultrarapid metabolizers of drugs metabolized by CYP1A2.
These cells are usually seen in a context of heavy proteinuria.
Very high amounts can be fed to animals with no ill effects if the kidneys are functioning.
It has few side effects and is reported to be safe and effective in aged patients and in patients with hematologic disorders.
Docosahexaenoate (DHA) is one of the essential polyunsaturated omega-3 fatty acids that is primarily obtained by ingesting fatty fish including salmon, mackerel, tuna, herring, and sardines.
It contains several plants of minor to moderate importance as food crops including Quinoa, Fat Hen, Good King Henry and Epazote.
Venoms from honeybees and bumblebees are reported to be highly cross-reactive, which is consistent with the degree of structural similarity in the phospholipases, phospholipase A2.
This strengthening of the BBB may be a contributing factor to interferon-beta's beneficial effects.
Characteristics include the presence of four pairs of flagella arising from a complicated system of axonemes and cysts that are ellipsoidal to ovoidal in shape.
Large amount of aspartylglycosamine appears in patients with aspartylglycosaminuria, which is a metabolic disorder associated with decreased activity of aspartylglycosamine amido hydrolase.
Homoserine is a more reactive variant of the amino acid serine that contains an extra CH2 group on the hydroxyl side chain, which allows it to form a five-membered ring.
Cell biology research encompasses both the great diversity of single-celled organisms like bacteria and protozoa, as well as the many specialized cells in multicellular organisms like humans.
The molecule exists in the form of a dimer consisting of 8 moles of platelet factor 4 and 2 moles of proteoglycan.
According to the World Health Organization, the presence of the mutation is one of the minor criteria for a diagnosis of SM.
The viral protein spikes in parainfluenza viruses have hemagglutinating and neuraminidase activities.
Patients with active systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) have lower levels of monocyte programmed death ligand 1 (PD-L1) expression compared to healthy controls as well as patients with SLE who are in remission.
Beta-galactosidase is a hydrolase enzyme that catalyzes the hydrolysis of beta-galactosides into monosaccharides.
Kochia is native to southern and eastern Russia, Europe, and Asia, and has nautralised across the northern Unites States.
Typically the virus is allowed to run its course and explicit identification of the virus is not needed.
These differences were not reported for Ara h 2, even though Peanuts from different varieties and from different parts of the world contain similar proteins and the IgE binding properties are similar.
Human overexposure to isoproanol can result in central nervous depression, brain damage, vomiting, and other symptoms.
Monounsaturated fatty acids are liquids at room temperature and semisolid or solid when refrigerated.
The leaves are 5-20 cm long, dark green, pinnate, with dense white tomentose hairs on the underside.
Many species in this family are plant pathogens or decay plant material.
This gene encodes a member of the ATP-binding cassette (ABC) transporter superfamily.
An example of a salt is sodium citrate and an ester is trimethyl citrate.
Hypochromic anemia is a generic term for any type of anemia in which the red blood cells (erythrocytes) are paler than normal.
Side effects include impairment of mental performance, euphoria, drowsiness, lethargy, and blurred vision.
Chloromethane, also called methyl chloride, R-40 or HCC 40, is a chemical compound of the group of organic compounds called haloalkanes.
When secreted from the gastric mucosa, it stimulates the release of bile from the gallbladder and digestive enzymes from the pancreas.
In humans, fructose ingestion has been associated with an increase in circulating FGF21, and obesity may lead to FGF21 resistance.
Ragweed pollen also contributes significantly to exacerbation of asthma and allergic conjunctivitis.
Amino acids can also be used as a source of energy.
Salicylamide is the common name for the substance o-hydroxybenzamide, or amide of salicyl.
The tube is inserted through the abdominal wall directly into the stomach.
Type III may be associated with: chronic infections, viral (EBV, CMV, HIV, hepatitis viruses), bacterial (SBE, leprosy, spirochetal), fungal, parasitic, autoimmune diseases, systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE), rheumatoid arthritis, inflammatory bowel diseases, and biliary cirrhosis.
Each cluster, or imprinted domain, is regulated by a functionally independent imprinting control region (ICR).
The S enantiomer of BAIB (S-BAIB) is derived from valine catabolism.
The Horse chestnut tree is native to Europe and particularly common in the Balkans (northern Greece and Albania), and has become naturalised in Britain.
Pseudoephedrine (commonly abbreviated as PSE) is a sympathomimetic amine commonly used as a decongestant.
The series of cells in the red blood cell lineage at various stages of differentiation.
For hypomagnesemic patients with normal renal function, FEMg is a useful tool for determining the etiology of hypomagnesemia.
Increased levels of coproporphyrins can indicate congenital erythropoietic porphyria or sideroblastic anaemia.
Some patients with Ehlers-Danlos syndrome type VI have deficiencies in lysyl hydroxylase activity.
The end result is an increase in circulating lipid levels.
In addition, larval antigens may have a stronger IgG1 response, followed by IgG2 and IgG3, while IgG4 is the most common isotype found in response to adult filaria.
A gas that has been used as an aerosol propellant and is the starting material for polyvinyl resins.
The protein encoded by this gene represents the alpha subunit of CBF and is thought to be involved in the development of normal hematopoiesis.
Monocular pupillary distance is the distance between the midpoint of the pupil and the midpoint of the bridge of the nose.
Estriol levels can be a good indicator of the health of the fetus.
Date of supracervical hysterectomy, which is the surgical removal of the fundus of the uterus, leaving the cervix in situ.
They normally target the connective tissue in muscle cells and other body organs.
Barbiturates were first developed in 1864 by Adolf von Baeyer and were widely distributed by the Farbwerke Fr Bayer and Co in 1904.
One of the main structural differences with beta-lactoglobulin is that it does not have any free thiol group that can serve as the starting point for a covalent aggregation reaction.
Some patients may experience gastrointestinal symptoms including watery diarrhea, vomiting and abdominal pain.
Testing for this mutation can be useful in differentiating WM and LPL cases from B-cell disorders that have phenotypic overlap.
They are mainly used for social purposes but are also used for their stimulant properties.
It is used to treat or prevent conditions such as pneumocystis pneumonia (PCP), toxoplasmosis, malaria, and babesia.
A protozoan parasite that occurs primarily in subtropical and temperate areas.
It is produced as a 251-amino acid precursor consisting of a signal peptide, N-terminal domain, and C-terminal domain.
The beta globulins consist of 2 major peaks, beta-1 and beta -2.
The encoded protein heterodimerizes with MSH2 to form a mismatch recognition complex that functions as a bidirectional molecular switch that exchanges ADP and ATP as DNA mismatches are bound and dissociated.
Acknowledgment: medical provider and parent/guardian signatures and dates authorizing administration of medications and exchange of information/communication with school staff and provider6.
Peridium membranaceous, asci cylindrical, clavate or subspherical, with a persistent or evanescent wall, usually with a thickened and non-amyloid annular structure at the apex, usually 8-spored.
SVA is the causative agent of an emerging vesicular disease in swine (2017) and has been associated with neonatal mortality in piglets.
Larger than normal RBCs may be indicative of liver disease while smaller than normal RBCs are seen in thalassemias and other anemias.(Mosby's manual of diagnostic and laboratory tests, Kathleen Deska Pagana; Timothy James Pagana, Elsevier St. Louis, Mo ©2010)
Milk proteins contain about 20% whey components Whey is milk depleted of most of the casein but otherwise equivalent to intact milk.
This gene encodes a protein belonging to the pantothenate kinase family and is the only member of that family to be expressed in mitochondria.
However, an N-oxime side chain is attached to the lactone ring.
Patients usually present early in childhood with anemia, icterus, and splenomegaly.
Evidence suggests that famphur does not bioaccumulate in fish or aquatic wildlife.
It is also known as Cloud 9, MDPK, MTV, Magic, Maddie, Black Rob, Super Coke, PV and Peeve.
Dietary sources of cobalt include green leafy vegetables, meat, liver, milk, oysters and clams.
3-Methylcrotonylglycine is a normal amino acid metabolite found in urine.
High levels of sarcosine may occur as a result of vitamin B2 insufficiency as vitamin B2 is required to metabolize sarcosine.
Glucogonemia occurs in diabetes in which only moderate elevations of glucagon may occur.
An adrenergic agonist that appears to interact with beta-2 and some alpha adrenergic receptors.
Clofazimine also has a marked anti-inflammatory effect and is given to control the leprosy reaction, erythema nodosum leprosum.
Carrots are the major contributor to both alpha- and beta-carotene, and cantaloupe, broccoli, squash, peas, and spinach also contain beta-carotene.
There are more than 20 known antigens associated with the Lutheran blood group (24 antigens reported as of 2018 ), all based on the expression of two codominant alleles, Lu^a and Lu^b.
If untreated, mental retardation effects and microcephaly are evident by the first year along with other symptoms which include: unusual irritability, epileptic seizures and skin lesions.
After the eggs have been obtained, the role of the egg donor is complete.
This usually results in loss of 9p and 20q material.
It has an extremely high affinity for oxygen, resulting in almost no oxygen delivery to the tissues.
In solution, it has anti-infective properties and is used topically and many X-ray contrast materials.
Despite the use of the proper name, most social wasps make nests from paper, although some tropical wasp species, such as Liostenogaster flavolineata, use mud, a far easier resource for the wasp to collect.
All Arums typically have unique flowers, consisting of a pike of reduced male or female organs, or both, surrounded by a showy petal-like leaf, a bract, which is often colorful.
Mutations in this gene have been associated with various forms of Charcot-Marie-Tooth Disease and neuropathy.
Gamma-aminobutyric acid (usually abbreviated to GABA) is an inhibitory neurotransmitter found in the nervous systems of widely divergent species.
Papaya allergy is thought to be mainly due to cross-reactivity to Latex, but may occur on its own.
The GLA gene (galactosidase, alpha) is located on chromosome Xq22.
Increased levels found with 2-ketoglutaric DH deficiency, GA I, 2-amino/2-ketoadipate acidemia, dihdrolipoyl DH(E3) deficiency, glycogen storage disorders I, 2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria(D-form), and fumarase deficiency.
There is no vaccine for WEE and there are no licensed therapeutic drugs in the U.S. for this infection.
Feline immunodeficiency virus (FIV) is a lentivirus that affects domesticated housecats worldwide and is the causative agent of feline AIDS.
Visual field testing is a measurement of areas of vision seen both centrally and peripherally while fixating on an object.
(Molecular Allergy Diagnostics, J. Kleine-Tebbe, B. K. Ballmer-Weber, H. Breiteneder, S. Vieths, pp21-42)
Extended-spectrum beta-lactamases (ESBL) are enzymes produced by some bacteria that are resistant to the majority of beta-lactam antibiotics which include the penicillins, cephalosporins and the monobactam aztreonam.
The allergens are originally located in the sap of the plant, but are present in dust collected from leaf surfaces and also in house dust on the floor, where the allergens may persist over a period of several months after removal of the plant).
Its long half-life enables it to be administered once daily.
It is also an endogenous neurotransmitter in many animals including mammals.
A defect in this enzyme is associated with neurological condition glutaric acidemia type 1, which is often fatal.
It is a hardy herbaceous perennial herb belonging to the Apiaceae family, along with Carrot, Celery, Caraway, Coriander, Dill, Parsley, etc.
These mutations either prevent the enzyme from being made or cause the enzyme that is produced to be nonfunctional.
The seed, fruit, and leaves from the tree may be used as medicine.
Tomato is a common cause of symptoms of food allergy in sensitised individuals.
W-18 (4-chloro-N--2-piperidinylidene]-benzenesulfonamide) and W-15 (4-chloro-N--benzenesulfonamide) are emerging drugs of abuse.
Mixed apnea is a reduction of respiratory airflow with both a central (respiratory effort) and obstructive component.
Methyl iodide, also called iodomethane, and commonly abbreviated "MeI", is the chemical compound with the formula CH3I. This dense volatile liquid is related to methane by replacement of one hydrogen atom by an atom of iodine.
The primary vector indicated is Culicoides paraenesis; however, Culex quinquefasciatus and Culex sp. mosquitoes are also associated with transmission.
2-hydroxy-3-methylvaleric acid (HMVA) is an acid generated by L-isoleucine oxidation pathway and involves four stereoisomers (2S,3S-HMVA, 2R,3R-HMVA, 2S,3R-HMVA and 2R,3S-HMVA).
This gene encodes a carcinoma-associated antigen and is a member of a family that includes at least two type I membrane proteins.
Suppression of tumorigenicity 2 (ST2) is a member of the interleukin 1 receptor family.
The Avocado originated in Central and South America and spread to nearly all parts of the tropical and subtropical world with suitable environmental conditions.
In medicine, malignant is a clinical term that is used to describe a clinical course that progresses rapidly to death.
There are many recognized species, and the distribution is world-wide.
Anti-digoxin antibody fragments, the specific treatment for digoxin poisoning, are also effective in serious digitoxin toxicity.
Mutations in this gene have been found in Dent disease and renal tubular disorders complicated by nephrolithiasis.
It is biosynthesized from the amino acid phenylalanine by enzymatic decarboxylation.
Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been found for this gene.
L-3-Phenyllactic acid (or PLA) is a chiral aromatic compound involved in phenylalanine metabolism.
Pyruvic acid (CH3COCOOH), an organic acid, is also a ketone and the simplest alpha-keto acid.
Penicillium colonies are rapidly growing, flat, filamentous, and velvety, woolly, or cottony in texture.
The envelope is similar to that of Gram negative bacteria, but it is not easily stained with Gram stain and the Gimenez stain is preferred.
Sunflower pollen is a cause of asthma, allergic rhinitis and allergic conjunctivitis, and is an important occupational allergen in areas where Sunflower is grown.
MPSs are rare disorders caused by a deficiency of enzymes that break down glycosaminoglycans (GAGs).
HPV type 18 is detected in 10% to 20% of invasive cervical cancers and more commonly found in adenocarcinomas compared to squamous-cell cervical carcinomas.
A boysenberry is a cross between a European Raspberry (Rubus idaeus), a Common Blackberry (Rubus fruticosus), and a Loganberry (Rubus × loganobaccus).
Enterobacterales was originally proposed in 2005 under the name "Enterobacteriales" but later reclassified in 2016 as Enterobacterales with the proposed seven families.
Tall waterhemp has been reported as a weed in 40 of 50 U.S. States.
Most sexually active persons become infected with HPV at least once.
The Pk antigen is the precursor to the globotype glycosphingolipids and consists of a terminal galactose that is added to α 1,4 galactosyltransferase 1.
Veterinary Medicine: Molybdenum toxicity can occur in cattle or sheep grazing on pastures with alkaline soil or soil contaminated with industrial sources of molybdenum.
Flu due to the type C species is rare compared to types A or B, but can be severe and can cause local epidemics.
Determination of 7-lathosterol and 8-lathosterol is used in diagnosis and treatment of Cerebrotendinous Xantomatosis (CTX).
The presence of siderophages in CSF indicates hemorrhage into the fluid prior to sample collection.
Chromosome region Yp11.3 contains the SRY gene, which codes for the sex-determining region Y protein.
It is usually set at a higher value than the stimulation threshold.
In testis, the motility of the sperm is thought to be controlled by cAMP-dependent phosphorylation and a unique form of calcineurin appears to be associated with the flagellum.
Activation of chymotrypsin:Chymotrypsin is synthesized in the pancreas by protein biosynthesis as a precursor called chymotrypsinogen that is enzymatically inactive.
Studies suggest it is required for biosynthesis of cellular translation (mRNA), growth and proliferation.
Mutations in the MLH3 gene are associated with hereditary non-polyposis colorectal cancer 7 (HNPCC7).
Broad casts are small mucoprotein tube-shaped structures that are much wider than ordinary casts and indicate localized tubule damage.
Atopic dermatitis, angioedema, asthma, diarrhoea, nausea and vomiting, and anaphylaxis have been reported.
The gene is located in a head-to-head orientation with HARS on chromosome five, where the homologous genes likely share a bidirectional promoter.
Symptoms of exposure to dechlorane can irritate the skin and eyes, cause headaches and dizziness, and nausea and vomiting.
Transmissible gastroenteritis virus (TGEV) is a coronovirus which causes an acute viral disease of swine.
It may also play a role in sudden infant death syndrome, aggressive behavior in Alzheimer disease patients, and depression-susceptibility in people experiencing emotional trauma.
It has also been linked with congenital deficiency of complement components C2 and C4, adrenal hyperplasia, and inflammatory bowel disease.
Tazobactam is a compound which inhibits the action of bacterial beta-lactamases.
The avian and human viruses within the pig trachea replicate in close proximity to one another, and are able to exchange genetic material and thereby create new strains of virus.
A viruses can be further broken down into different strains.
Metallic mercury is used to produce chlorine gas and caustic soda, and is also used in thermometers, dental fillings, and batteries.
The lysosomal storage disease aspartylglycosaminuria is caused by a deficiency in the AGA enzyme.
It is most common in the developing world and where pigs are commonly fed raw garbage.
Cockroaches produce potent allergens that are an important cause of asthma.
There are over 250 known species, existing primarily in the Northern Hemisphere although they are common in New Zealand and Tasmania.
There is a huge occupational risk since menivphos can be absorbed through the skin, lungs, and mucous membranes.
Populus deltoides is the common designation for Populus species of trees in this genus, but it can be divided into 3 distinct groups: Aspens, Cottonwoods and Poplars.
Interleukin 3 activates pluripotent stem cells giving rise to a wide range of cell types.
It is used orally to treat Clostridium difficile pseudomembranous colitis.
Propafenone is a class 1C antiarrhythmic drug for treating ventricular arrhythmias.
The protein encoded by this gene is an ATP-dependent drug efflux pump for xenobiotic compounds with broad substrate specificity.
Mutations in this gene result in Cornelia de Lange syndrome, a disorder characterized by dysmorphic facial features, growth delay, limb reduction defects, and mental retardation.
Butyrylcarnitine (C4) is elevated in patients with short-chain acyl-CoA dehydrogenase (SCAD) deficiency and isobutyryl-CoA dehydrogenase deficiency.
Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants that encode the same protein have been found for this gene.
Norolanzapine (also known as desmethylolanzapine) is one of the metabolites of olanzapine, an atypical antipsychotic used to treat schizophrenia and bipolar disorder.
Phylloquinone is present primarily in green leafy vegetables and is the main dietary form of vitamin K. Menaquinones, which are predominantly of bacterial origin, are present in modest amounts in various animal-based and fermented foods.
The so-called first-generation TSH test was of low sensitivity, such that it was not useful for diagnosing or following hyperthyroidism.
It also induces 20a-Steroid Dehydrogenase in T cells and Leukotriene C4.
Ideally, the two values should be measured at the same time.
Gum arabic is used as a suspending agent, excipient, and emulsifier in foods and pharmaceuticals.
It is also a drug of abuse and a psychotomimetic.
This protein binds directly to cyclin E and probably targets cyclin E for ubiquitin-mediated degradation.
Interleukin 1a promotes antigen specific immune responses, inflammation, Prostaglandin secretion, Colony Stimulating Factors, proteoglycanase, collagenase, and gelatinase activity, and release of Interleukin 2 from T cells.
In this setting, several mechanisms could account for a link between vitamin C and heart disease.
High molecular wt fragment of ACTH; high levels found in ectopic tumor syndrome and certain malignancies; low levels in Addisons disease.
17-OH-PG levels are measured to screen for congenital adrenal hyperplasia (CAH), a group of inherited disorders of the adrenal gland.
The deletion occurs near the middle of the chromosome at a location designated p11.2.
The SLC22A18 gene (solute carrier family 22, member 18) is located on chromosome 11p15.5.
Foods that have high amounts of isoleucine include eggs, soy protein, seaweed, turkey, chicken, lamb, cheese, and fish.
The mesothelium is a membrane that forms the lining of several body cavities: the pleura (thoracal cavity), peritoneum (abdominal cavity including the mesentery) and pericardium (heart sac).
It is clear that even the CoNS are true pathogens, especially in patients with indwelling devices, and given their prevalence, are common causes of bacteremia.
It is the second member of an important biochemical series of glucose chains.
Equine rhinitis A virus (ERAV), is a species within the genus Aphthovirus and family Picornaviridae.
The hydrolysis of lactose to glucose and galactose is catalyzed by the enzyme beta-galactosidase, a lactase.
Suvorexant is a potent and highly selective dual orexin receptor antagonist.
It belongs to the genus Orbivirus, family Reoviridae with seven serotypes currently recognized.
Pyridinoline and deoxypyridinoline were found to be released into the blood during bone degradation and rapidly exereted in the urine.
The alpha-2 (HBA2) and alpha-1 (HBA1) coding sequences are identical.
Along with CD86, these molecules provide the necessary stimuli to prime T cells against antigens presented by antigen-presenting cells.
Epstein-Barr virus encoded latent infection membrane protein-1 (LMP1) can interact with this and several other members of the TRAF family, which may be essential for the oncogenic effects of LMP1.
MT-45 has been shown to cause physical dependence in mice, and adverse effects reported in humans include hair loss, dermatitis, elevated liver enzymes, cataracts, hearing loss and death .
The primary clinical signs include jaundice, dullness, weakness, anemia, trembling and respiratory distress.
The original antibacterial sulfonamides (sometimes called simply sulfa drugs) are synthetic antimicrobial agents that contain the sulfonamide group.
This gene encodes a 28S subunit protein that belongs to the ribosomal protein S18P family.
Some patients with autoimmune diseases, including systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) and systemic sclerosis, can also produce anti-RNP antibodies.
It is involved in transmission of PAIN, causes rapid contractions of the gastrointestinal smooth muscle, and modulates inflammatory and immune responses.
Increased production of histamine is seen in patients with severe allergic reactions and in patients with mastocytosis, a rare condition associated with abnormal proliferation of mast cells.
However, inhalation rarely causes adverse effects, as the conidia are usually eliminated efficiently by the innate immune system.
An anabolic steroid with some progestational activity and little androgenic effect.
They are used for a wide variety of commercial and industrial purposes, including degreasers, cleaning solutions, paint thinners, pesticides, resins, glues, and a host of other mixing and thinning solutions.
Cystatin C is a miniscule protein that is secreted by all cells containing a nucleus.
Other causes may include: Megaloblastosis (Vitamin B12 or folate deficiency; or DNA synthesis-inhibiting drugs), hypothyroidism, reticulocytosis (commonly from hemolysis or a recent history of blood loss), liver disease, myeloproliferative disease
This gene encodes a dual-specificity phosphatase that acts on both phosphotyrosine and phosphoserine.
Mutations in the PCBD gene are associated with decreased PCD activity, which results in decreased BH4 salvage, increase in phenylalanine due to inhibition of the BH4 to 4a-hydroxy-BH4 reaction, and concomitant increase in 7-biopterin in urine due to alternate metabolism of 4a-hydroxy-BH4.
Results are reported as a ratio of the number of bcr/abl transcripts in the patient sample to the G6PDH transcripts in control specimens.
Its activity is required for the synthesis of steroid hormones including cortisol and aldosterone.
The distance from soft tissue Subnasale to soft tissue Menton, perpendicular to the Frankfort horizontal plane
Serotonin is a hormone that transmits signals between nerve cells.
In ALPS there is an increase in the CD4- CD8- TCR alpha beta+ T cells, FAS ligand (FAS-L), and IL-10 protein.
The diameter of the VC can be measured using Doppler imaging and reflects the degree of valvular regurgitation regardless of regurgitant jet direction.
Aedes is a genus of mosquito originally found in tropical and subtropical zones, but has spread by human activity to all continents excluding Antarctica.
In addition, individuals positive for the UGT1A1*28 allele are more likely to experience severe adverse effects during irinotecan chemotherapy.
Epizootic Hemorrhagic Disease virus (EHDV) causes an arthropod-bourne illness primarily of white-tailed deer, mule deer and pronghorn antelope (although other species can be affected).
It is used as an antiallergic, in pruritus, for motion sickness and sedation, and also in animals.
Staphylococcus aureus enterotoxin E (SEE) is one of six enterotoxins secreted by S. aureus that often colonizes patients with atopic dermatitis.
Satratoxin-H, a trichothecene mycotoxin, is a naturally occurring mold byproduct of Stachybotrys chartarum which is toxic to humans and animals.
It provides guidance for three situations that can occur for asthmatics.
Detection of antineuronal autoantibodies against AMPA receptors aids in the diagnosis of autoimmune encephalopathies, especially limbic encephalitis, and related conditions.
The quantity prescribed is the total amount of medication, e.g., 30 tablets or 100 mL, ordered by the provider.
D. farinae has many of the same characteristics as D. pteronyssinus, which co-exists with the Storage mite Blomia tropicalis in subtropical and tropical regions as a major source of allergens.
They were shown to be resistant to trypsin treatment, but sensitive to other protein cleaving enzymes.
Insulin-like growth factor 2 (IGF-2) is one of three protein hormones that share structural similarity to insulin.
PCV2 is the primary virus that causes porcine circovirus disease (PCVD) and porcine circovirus-associated disease (PCVAD) which is described as postweaning multisystemic wasting syndrome (PMWS).
Taber's medical dictionary defines a Progress Note as "An ongoing record of a patient's illness and treatment.
An acetylcholine receptor (abbreviated AChR) is an integral membrane protein that responds to the binding of the neurotransmitter acetylcholine.
This is different than spermatozoa aggregation which refers to immotile spermatozoa adhering to each other or of motile spermatozoa adhering to mucus strands, non-sperm cells, or debris.(WHO laboratory manual for the Examination and processing of human semen FIFTH EDITION)
The results are reported on a scale ranging from 0 (most insulin sensitive) to 100 (most insulin resistant).
Mutations in this gene and/or its regulatory regions cause ahaptoglobinemia or hypohaptoglobinemia.
Veterinary Medicine: Gamithromycin is a semisynthetic macrolide antibiotic used in the treatment and prevention of bovine respiratory disease (BRD) that is administered as a single subcutaneous dose.
The Axin-related protein, Axin2, presumably plays an important role in the regulation of the stability of beta-catenin in the Wnt signaling pathway, like its rodent homologs, mouse conductin/rat axil.
They reproduces asexually in red blood cells and sexually in the Ixodid scapularis tick.
A defect in this gene, which could result in either reduced expression or normal expression with reduced functional binding to CD40, results in an inability to undergo immunoglobulin class switch and is associated with hyper-IgM syndrome.
Cardiac valve area can be measured (orifice area) or indirectly calculated (effective orifice area).
Natural VSIV infections encompass two steps, cytolytic infections of mammalian hosts and transmission by insects.
In the chemical industry, acetaldehyde is used as an intermediate in the production of acetic acid, certain esters, and a number of other chemicals.
Xipamide is a sulfonamide diuretic drug marketed by under the trade names Aquaphor and Aquaphoril.
The C1 esterase inhibitor assay is used to diagnose hereditary angioneurotic edema.
Death by asphyxia is a consequent threat, as in any pneumonia.
It originated in India and is now found in more than 100 varieties and grown almost worldwide.
Terbinafine hydrochloride (Lamisil in Australia, Belgium, Brazil, Canada, Chile, Finland, France, Germany, Hungary, Iceland, Israel, Mexico, New Zealand, Romania, Sweden, United Kingdom, and United States, also sold under the name Corbinal in Turkey) is a synthetic allylamine antifungal.
Stx2e is made up of an enzymatically active A subunit and five B subunits.
The proportion of cfDNA, calculated as fetal cfDNA/total cfDNA and also known as fetal fraction, is one of the reported measures, and in general, samples with a higher fetal fraction yield more sensitive results than those with lower fetal fraction.
When the second copy is somatically lost or mutated, tumors develop in tissues.
The name "cyanobacteria" comes from the color of the bacteria (Greek: κυανός (kyanós) = blue).
Both of the Indian antigens can be suppressed by the In(Lu) gene (LU).
B vitamins help to support adrenal function, maintain a healthy nervous system, and are necessary for key metabolic processes.
As a result of its cellular distribution, this receptor plays a major role in controlling allergic responses.
Treatment consists of stopping any antibiotics and administering specific anticlostridial antibiotics such as metronidazole.
In oval cells this is in a central location, while in club-like cells it is usually peripheral.
When grown in a specimen, they are generally considered to be contaminants, but have proven to be opportunistic pathogens causing bacteremia, endocarditis, meningitis and other infections in immunocompromised patients .
It is estimated that 95% of children worldwide between the ages of 3 and 5 will become infected with RVA.
They are concentrated by the predator food chain and lipophilic.
Some Brassica cultivars can have up to 40 to 50 percent of their oil recovered as erucic acid.
This gene has been found to be recurrently rearranged in chromosomal translocation with two other genes - baculoviral IAP repeat-containing protein 3 (also known as apoptosis inhibitor 2) and immunoglobulin heavy chain locus - in mucosa-associated lymphoid tissue lymphomas.
In diabetes mellitus, higher amounts of glycated hemoglobin, indicating poorer control of blood glucose levels, have been associated with cardiovascular disease, nephropathy, and retinopathy.
Acute bronchospasm associated with inhalation of psyllium hydrophilic mucilloid has also been described, as well as eosinophilia.
It has been used in the treatment of staphylococcal, streptococcal, and Bacteroides fragilis infections.
In the United States, most cases of blastomycosis and histoplasmosis occur along the Ohio and Mississippi River valleys.
Spectral karyotyping (SKY) and multiplex (M)-FISH are two types of chromosome painting methods.
Its organisms are intestinal pathogens of man and other primates and cause bacillary dysentery (DYSENTERY, BACILLARY).
The major consequence of infection is the development of haemolytic anaemia due to the damage done to red blood cells.
The angle formed by the Palatal plane (ANS-PNS) and the and the mandibular plane, using Menton (Constructed Gonion-Menton)
Barley may commonly induce symptoms of food allergy in sensitised individuals.
A central nervous system stimulant used in fatigue and depressive states and to treat hyperkinetic disorders in children.
May include assessment scale observations, identify caregivers, and provide information about non-medicinal supplies.
The diseases caused by mutations include amyloidotic polyneuropathy, euthyroid hyperthyroxinaemia, amyloidotic vitreous opacities, cardiomyopathy, oculoleptomeningeal amyloidosis, meningocerebrovascular amyloidosis, carpal tunnel syndrome, etc.
Saturated fat is fat that consists of triglycerides containing only saturated fatty acid radicals.
It is used mainly in farming as a pesticide, specifically as a preplant fumigant and nematicide.
It is commonly measured clinically as a part of a diagnostic evaluation of liver health.
NCAM has been implicated as having a role in cell-cell adhesion, neurite outgrowth, synaptic plasticity, and learning and memory.
Blue mussels are part of an ongoing long term environmental monitoring program in Prince William Sound, Alaska, the area affected by the Exxon Valdez oil spill.
Chromosome 6q23 deletion, which involves the MYB gene, is associated with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL), acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL), B-cell small lymphocytic lymphoma, non-Hodgkin lymphoma, and multiple myeloma.
CV2 (CRMP5) antibody binds to cytoplasm and cell processes of a subpopulation of oligodendrocytes in the white matter and targets 66 kDa protein known as CRMP5.
Both capillary and venous blood specimens are used for lead testing and they have different reference ranges, so it is important to distinguish the specimen type for both clinical and public health reporting.
In the placenta, CRH is a marker that determines the length of gestation and the timing of parturition and delivery.
EC adheres to the small intestine using adhesin factors, and produces one or more exotoxins that induce fluid and electrolyte secretion.
The adult form is called Salla disease and is associated with slowly progressive neurodegeneration.
The enzyme has widespread tissue expression and has a role in metabolism.
The kinetoplastid protozoan parasite Trypanosoma cruzi is the organism that causes Chagas disease.
A species of the Chenopodium genus which is the source of edible seed called quinoa.
The AHI, as with the separate apnea index and hypopnea index, is calculated by dividing the number of events by the number of hours of sleep.
The test is used along with blood lead levels to monitor chronic industrial exposure to lead.
U. parvum is associated with various diseases, including male urethritis, chorioamnionitis, adverse pregnancy outcomes, neonatal meningitis, neonatal respiratory distress syndrome (RDS), pelvic inflammatory disease, and pyelonephritis.
Semen begins to liquefy soon after ejaculation, and completely within 15-60 minutes.
Multiple allergens have been identified in A. alternata and the presence of specific allergens is highly dependent on growth conditions.
Though the fiber is the best known Cotton product, parts of the plant are edible and in common use as foods.
The protein encoded by this gene regulates the electric excitability of the skeletal muscle membrane.
Sperm aggregation is different from agglutination, which refers to motile spermatozoa sticking to each other.
STEC strains are typically have one or both stx genes that encode for Shiga Toxins 1 and 2.
Dicoumarol is a natural chemical substance of combinded plant and fungal origin.
Specifies the way in which the temperature, such as that in an infant incubator or radiant warmer, is controlled, which can be either manual or by servo, an automatic method that adjusts the temperature based on the patient's temperature.
It is the fifth enzyme in the 8-enzyme biosynthetic pathway of HEME.
Semisynthetic broad-spectrum cephalosporin with a tetrazolyl moiety that is resistant to beta-lactamase.
Calmodulin-dependent protein phosphatase, calcineurin, is involved in a wide range of biologic activities, acting as a Ca(2+)-dependent modifier of phosphorylation status.
To achieve a close attachment to the enterocytes, PEPEC produces an outer membrane protein called intimin that is critical to induce the distinctive A/E lesion.
Once activated, subunit A causes a series of reactions that lead to the secretion of large quantities of ions and fluid to be secreted from the cell, resulting in diarrhea.
The HPV that infect the cervix are categorized as low or high risk depending upon their carcinogenicity.
It is found to be elevated in patients with 3-hydroxydicarboxylic aciduria and non-ketotic hypoglycemia .
A non-selective beta-adrenergic antagonist with a long half-life, used in cardiovascular disease to treat arrhythmias, angina pectoris, and hypertension.
× 1/10 + 0.6979 × 1/10 PPGS = Prediction of Patient Global Score = -13.489 + 5.474 × 1/10 + 0.486 × 1/10 + 2.246 × 1/10 + 1.684 × 1/10 + 4.14 × 1/10 + 2.292 × 1/10 − 1.898 × 1/10 + 0.028 × 1/10 − 2.892 × 1/10 − 0.506 × 1/10 MBDA score = round(max(min((0.56 × sqrt(max(PTJC,0))
They may cause a wide range of infections and intoxications.
Amitriptyline also appears to antagonize cholinergic and alpha-1 adrenergic responses to bioactive amines.
Also known as scombroid fish poisoning, histamine poisoning occurs after eating fish with high concentrations of histamine.
In chemistry, a carbonate is a salt or ester of carbonic acid, characterized by the presence of the carbonate ion, CO2−3 or a carbonate functional group O=C(O-)2.
Treatment usually only requires medication for diarrhea, but more severely affected dogs may require intravenous fluids for dehydration.
Approximately half of circulating testosterone is tightly bound to a protein called sex hormone binding globulin (SHBG) and is biologically inactive.
Sorafenib (brand name Nexavar) is in a class of medications called multikinase inhibitors and used to treat advanced renal cell cancer (RCC), hepatocellular cancer (HCC), and thyroid cancer.
The tree generally grows in small stands, the roots of the trees intertwined with neighboring trees.
These are reported as a pair of one character amino acid codes such as RR, RH, QQ, etc.
This is achieved by cell-matrix adhesions through substrate adhesion molecules.
In 1954, the virus was isolated, and vaccines became available in 1963.
The SERPING1 gene (serpin peptidase inhibitor, clade G (C1 inhibitor), member 1) is located on chromosome 11q12.1.
Although primarily transmitted by the respiratory route, there are many reports in the literature of transmission through plasma products, especially coagulation factors, due to: 1) the size of plasma pools; 2) the incidence of acute, imperceptible infections; 3) high levels of virus in a viremic donation (up to 1012 IU/mL); and 4) resistance to commonly used viral inactivation/removal procedures.
The mutations associated with Maffucci syndrome, Ollier disease, and other cancer-related conditions are somatic gain-of-function mutations in which the enzymes take on a new, abnormal function.
Increased levels of ALT in the blood provide an early indicator of liver damage.
The proteins weigh between 25 and 30 kilo Daltons and interact with more than 200 target proteins.
Side effects are primarily self-limited and include nausea, headache, and abdominal pain.
The incubation period is one to four weeks, and patients with encephalitis usually present with fever, headache, malaise, and altered mental status.
Direct or indirect contact with bird allergens may cause sensitization.
Cardiac strain has multiple components, such as circumferential, longitudinal, and radial, and strain can be either perpendicular or parallel (shear) to the force that is applied.
These proteins may play a role in the control of cell division and growth regulation.
Iron overload occurs when the erythropoiesis is normal, but the iron exceeds the iron binding capacity of transferrin.
Consequently, the encoded protein acts to increase the rate of fatty acid oxidation.
Foci are considered distinct if they have clear margins and are separated by uninvolved tissue.
Human parainfluenza viruses (hPIVs) are a group of four distinct serotypes of enveloped single-stranded RNA viruses belonging to the paramyxovirus family.
Its chemical composition is identical to that of leucine, but the arrangement of its atoms is slightly different, resulting in different properties.
Time for the formation of a stable clot (between 2mm and 20 mm of firmness)
The proteins encoded by HLAs are the proteins on the outer part of body cells that are (effectively) unique to that person.
Human parechoviruses cause mild, gastrointestinal or respiratory illness, but have been implicated in cases of myocarditis and encephalitis.
For example, 42 CFR Part 2 ("Part 2"), recognizing that the stigma associated with substance abuse and fear of prosecution deters people from entering treatment, establishes patient consent requirements prior to the disclosure of patient health information.
This gene encodes a member of the UDP-glycosyltransferase (UDPGT) family.
Electrophysiological studies have shown that SSC displays depolarizing properties similar to glutamate.
Ropivacaine hydrochloride is commonly marketed under the trade name Naropin.
Stomatocytes tend to get trapped in the spleen and other organs, resulting in hemolysis.
Trypanosoma brucei is a parasitic protist species that causes African trypanosomiasis (or sleeping sickness) in humans and nagana in animals in Africa.
They are all oxidase positive, and except for N elongate subspecies nitroreducens and N elongate subspecies elongate, they are all catalase positive.
Smoking statuses can be classified as current every day smoker, current some day smoker, former smoker, never smoker, smoker - current status unknown, unknown if ever smoked, current heavy tobacco smoker, and current light tobacco smoker.
In addition, MMP-3 can also activate other MMPs such as MMP-1, MMP-7, and MMP-9, rendering MMP-3 crucial in connective tissue remodeling.
This amino acid is white solid when pure, although commercial samples may appear yellow.
While the presence of IgM antibodies suggests current or recent infection, low levels of IgM antibodies may occasionally persists for more than 12 months post-infection.
The encoded protein terminates the action of serotonin and recycles it in a sodium-dependent manner.
PB-22 is an analog of JWH 018, another potent synthetic cannabinoid.
It is used for the treatment of pain and opioid dependence.
Some examples of symptoms are headache, fever, fatigue, nausea, vomiting, and pain.
It differs from exotoxins in that it is not produced by the bacteria to have an effect or to be toxic to its host.
Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different protein isoforms have been identified.
Hypersensitivity pneumonitis can be precipitated either by acute or chronic exposure to acid anhydrides.
This reference standard is then compared to the patient's estimated total carbohydrate intake and used to develop the nutrition prescription.
Willows are cool-climate trees and are common in most of Europe, North America, western temperate Asia, and northeast Africa.
It is the drug of choice for all conditions in which routine systemic corticosteroid therapy is indicated, except adrenal deficiency states.
Honey is produced by domesticated and many wild bees from the nectar of flowers and other plant secretions.
Plasmodium knowlesi is a primate malaria parasite commonly found in Southeast Asia.
Lymphoblasts look like immature lymphocytes, and were once thought to be precursor cells.
The BCL2 gene (B-cell CLL/lymphoma 2) is located on chromosome 18q21.3.
Hematoporphyrin (Photodyn, Sensibion) is an endogenous porphyrin formed by the acid hydrolysis of hemoglobin.
3,5-dihydroxybenzoic acid is a primary metabolite of alkylresinols which have been hydrolyzed by liver enzymes.
Escherichia coli (EC) is a gram-negative, flagellated, rod-shaped bacterium that is composed of a stable core set of genes and another more fluid set of genes that include the virulence genes.
Phthalic anhydride is widely used in industry in the production of dyes (rhodamine, anthraquinone derivatives), insecticides, plasticizers, in pharmacy, in analytic chemistry, etc.
Certain protein allergens and chemicals capable of acting as haptens occur at high concentrations in workplace environments.
A spice, which may result in allergy symptoms in sensitised individuals.
Chicken is the most common type of poultry in the world, and was one of the first domesticated animals.
Elevated values can be often be detected within 3-6 hours following the onset of chest pain.
Oral teicoplanin has been demonstrated to be effective in the treatment of pseudomembranous colitis and Clostridium difficile -associated diarrhoea, with comparable efficacy to vancomycin.
Like B. burgdorferi, B. mayonii causes fever, headache, rash, and neck pain in the early stages of infection (days after exposure) and arthritis in later stages of infection (weeks after exposure).
The isoforms are a result of alternative splicing in exons 2,3, and 10 of the tau gene.
Extracts were analysed for their inhibitory activities, with solid-phase allergens prepared from all of the Ragweed pollens.
It is predicted to have a cytoplasmic C-terminus, 13 transmembrane domains, and 3 large loops in the lumen of the endosome - the last loop being at the N-terminus.
Allergic symptoms reported have included abdominal pain, nausea, vomiting, rhinitis, asthma, angioedema, atopic dermatitis, and anaphylaxis.
Glyceraldehyde 3-phosphate dehydrogenase (abbreviated as GAPDH or less commonly as G3PDH) is an enzyme that catalyzes the sixth step of glycolysis and thus serves to break down glucose for energy and carbon molecules.
Antibodies specific to HLA class I and II antigens can be acquired through alloimmunization due to pregnancy, transfusion of blood products, or previous transplants.
This leads to high cortisol levels in the collecting duct of the kidney.
Ebola virus is one cause of viral hemorrhagic fever disease and has 5 subspecies, including Ebola Zaire, which was the type identified in the West Africa outbreak in 2014.
Osteoblast cells tend to decrease as individuals become elderly, thus decreasing the natural renovation of the bone tissue.
Ground allspice, or the whole berry, is widely used in a variety of food products, such as pickles, ketchup, seafood seasoning, curry powder, formulations for sausages, pickled meats and fish products, in sweet goods baking, puddings and fruit preparations.
However, Cryptococcus laurentii and Cryptococcus albidus have been known to occasionally cause moderate-to-severe disease in human patients with compromised immunity.
A condition in which an infant or child's weight gain and growth are far below usual levels for age.
Sulbactam is an irreversible inhibitor of beta-lactamase; it binds the enzyme and does not allow it to interact with the antibiotic.
Sand, Portland cement, and thousands of minerals are examples of silicates.
A positive value is often found during periods of growth, tissue repair or pregnancy.
CD138 is a valuable marker and more specific than CD38 for identifying plasma cells in bone marrow biopsies.
The gamma and omega gliadin allergens may also be important to identifying severe allergy to ingested wheat.
Diethylamine is manufactured from ethanol and ammonia and is obtained together with ethylamine and triethylamine.
A pseudogene associated with this gene is located on chromosome 11.
ACHR-binding antibodies are detected in 90% of patients with severe, generalized MG, and 50% of patients with ocular MG.
Parechovirus is a viral genus in the family Picornaviridae and contains two species, Human parechovirus (HPeV) and Ljungan virus (LV).
Japanese cypress is an evergreen tree native to Japan and found most frequently in Southern Japan and in Taiwan (though it has been exported to many other temperate regions).
Agents which induce (e.g. cigarette smoke) or inhibit (e.g. theophylline, ciprofloxacin, fluvoxamine) CYP1A2 may increase or decrease, respectively, the metabolism of clozapine.
A serotype of the species California encephalitis virus (ENCEPHALITIS VIRUS, CALIFORNIA), in the genus ORTHOBUNYAVIRUS, causing human MENINGOENCEPHALITIS.
Parainfluenza viruses last only a few hours in the environment and are inactivated by soap and water.
If large amounts of A niger spores are inhaled, aspergillosis may occur, but is less likely than encounters involving other aspergillus species.
Chediak-Higashi syndrome (CHS) is a rare autosomal recessive disorder characterized by variable degrees of albinism, easy bruising, and bleeding.
An ED episode of care begins with the initial visit for care for a particular problem and ends when the patient is no longer continuing treatment.
Hereditary spherocytosis and hereditary pyropoikilocystosis involve changes in both cell volume and membrane surface area.
Chromium is a chemical element in the periodic table that has the symbol Cr and atomic number 24.
These receptors are also closely related to the activin receptors, ACVR1 and ACVR2.
Testing for IgE antibodies may be used to help diagnose an allergic disease or the cause of an anaphylactic episode in a patient.
Eruca is a genus of flowering plants in the family Brassicaceae, native to the Mediterranean region, which includes the leaf vegetable known as arugula or rocket.
This protein mediates the transfer of ubiquitin from ubiquitin conjugating enzymes (E2) to specific substrates.
The endoglin gene (ENG) and the activin A receptor, type II-like 1 gene (ACVRL1) are most commonly associated with hereditary hemorrhagic telangiectasia (HHT).
Grey alder is the most widely distributed Alder in Europe and western North America.
A higher total score is associated with an increased probability of PE.
Two transcript variants encoding the same protein and one non-coding transcript variant have been found for this gene.
2-Hydroxycaproic acid is a branched-chain alpha-keto acid that have been reported in normal human blood and in normal amniotic fluid.
CD1d (group 2 CD1) is expressed in a wider variety of cells.
In human disease, alterations in numbers of regulatory T cells - and in particular those that express Foxp3 - are found in a number of disease states.
Acute promyelocytic leukemia (APL) involves the t(15;17)(PML;RARα )(q22;q12) translocation occurring between the promyelocytic leukemia (PML) gene and the retinoic acid receptor - alpha (RARα) gene, leading to expression of the PML- RARα fusion protein.
Saquinavir is a Protease Inhibitor (PI) antiretroviral drug used in the treatment of HIV.
Pascopyrum is a monotypic genus of grass containing the sole species Pascopyrum smithii, which is known by the common name western wheatgrass.
The species is present in soil, and in vital and decomposing plant material such as peat moss.
Contaminated drinking water and unpasteurized milk provide an efficient means for distribution.
An alkylating agent adds an alkyl group (CnH2n+1) to DNA.
It is the first available orally active direct factor Xa inhibitor.
The sex that was assigned and recorded on the birth certificate at the time of an individual's birth.
Like other chlorinated hydrocarbons, it is a central nervous system depressant, albeit a less potent one than many similar compounds.
The drug is typically sprayed on botanical material and smoked, although it can be ingested in liquid or powder form.
Antibodies to deamidated gliadin peptide and tissue transglutaminase are specific to Celiac Disease while antibodies to gliadin are present in patients with and without gastrointestinal manifestations and are serological evidence of gluten sensitivity.
It is produced by photophosphorylation and cellular respiration and used by enzymes and structural proteins in many cellular processes, including biosynthetic reactions, motility, and cell division.
Since they cannot survive or multiply outside a living cell, they are not considered alive.
It was used as a treatment of insomnia, as a sedative, and a muscle relaxant.
Bradykinin is also released from MAST CELLS during asthma attacks, from gut walls as a gastrointestinal vasodilator, from damaged tissues as a pain signal, and may be a neurotransmitter.
This protein has several synonyms: dimeric acidic glycoprotein (DAG protein), testosterone repressed prostate message-2 (TRPM-2), sulfated glycoprotein-2 (SGP-2) and complement lysis inhibitor (CLI).
The amplitude and implicit time can be measured for each, though P1 amplitude and implicit time are the most common measurements.
The rare ESBL type CTX-M-8 has been isolated in Germany, mainly in E. coli, but also in Salmonella and E. aerogenes.
Pefloxacin is extensively prescribed in France, but has not been approved for use in the United States.
Antiepileptics with an aromatic ring, for example carbamazepine and phenytoin, interact with HLA-B*31:01 and alter the repertoire of self peptides that are presented to T lymphocytes, which activates an immune reaction known as Stevens-Johnson syndrome or toxic epidermal necrolysis.
The MART-1 / Melan-A antigen is specific for the melanocyte lineage, found in normal skin, the retina, and melanocytes, but not in other normal tissues.
HNP synovial fluid proteins are used as a diagnostic biomarker for periprosthetic joint infection (PJI).
The CYBA gene (cytochrome b-245, alpha polypeptide) is located on chromosome 16q24.
Since the early 2010s clandestine manufacturing of both novel fentanyl derivatives as well as other synthetic opioids has increased, with the list growing to upwards of more than 30 unique compounds.
The encoded isozyme is a soluble cytoplasmic protein, acting as a homodimer to convert naturally-occuring but harmful superoxide radicals to molecular oxygen and hydrogen peroxide.
Allyl alcohol (IUPAC name: prop-2-en-1-ol) is an organic compound with the structural formula CH2=CHCH2OH.
It is also sometimes known in the United States as "wild licorice", to distinguish it from the related European Liquorice (Glycyrrhiza glabra) which is occasionally cultivated
The total number of nucleated cells (TNC) is important as well as the myeloid:erythroid ratio and both types of information can be used together to help differentiate between different disorders.
The protein may function as a growth or differentiation factor receptor.
The GFAP gene (glial fibrillary acidic protein) is located on chromosome 17q21.
Mutations in this gene result in poor metabolism of thiopurines, and are associated with thiopurine-induced early leukopenia.
ETTs come in different sizes for different types of patients (e.g. premature infant, child, adult), and using an appropriate ETT will ensure the most effective airway and ventilation support.
Mutations in this gene cause nemaline myopathy type 3, congenital myopathy with excess of thin myofilaments, congenital myopathy with cores, and congenital myopathy with fiber-type disproportion, diseases that lead to muscle fiber defects.
As spermatids move toward the lumen of the seminiferous tubules, they undergo extensive structural changes including the loss of cytoplasm, condensation of chromatin into the sperm head, formation of the acrosome cap, the sperm midpiece and the sperm tail that provides motility.
Matricaria recutita or German chamomile, also spelled camomile, is an annual plant of the composite family Asteraceae.
PKoV/AiV-C is believed to require other pathogens in order to cause diarrhea in infected pigs, including transmissible gastroenteritis and rotavirus.
Histamine is a compound released in allergic inflammatory reactions and is responsible for immediate hypersensitivity reactions such as sneezing and itching.
HMB-45 is a monoclonal antibody that reacts against an antigen present in melanocytic tumors such as melanomas, and stands for Human Melanoma Black.
Borrelia miyamotoi is a spirochetal bacterium that is closely related to the Borrelia species that causes tick-borne relapsing fever (TBRF), and it is more distantly related to the Borrelia species that cause Lyme disease.
This gene encodes a muscle-specific member of the calpain large subunit family that specifically binds to titin.
Dietary sources of nonheme iron include nuts, beans, vegetables, and fortified grain products.
On the other hand, urine BAIB is elevated, which indicates that there must be cross-over in the thymine and valine degradation pathways.
High-dose methotrexate (MTX) is an antimetabolite drug used in treatment of cancer, and low-dose methotrexate (MTX) is used as a disease modifying antirheumatic drug (DMARD) for long-term treatment of rheumatoid arthritis (RA), psoriasis, and other autoimmune diseases.
INR is calculated by the equation, INR = (PTR) raised to the power of ISI, where ISI = International Sensitivity Index (assigned to each reagent thromboplastin).
Trace elements are usually defined as minerals that are required in amounts between 1 to 100 mg/day by adults or make up less than 0.01 percent of total body weight.
Giant platelets are abnormally large platelets 7-15 microns in size.
It can be indicative of metabolic acidosis (acidosis describes the abnormal conditions that results from an excess of acid within the blood such as in a case of lactic acidosis due to anaerobic metabolism) or compensatory respiratory alkalosis (alkalosis describes a conditions that results from an excess alkali (base) within the blood).
This allows targeted surgical removal of pre-cancerous lesions prior to the development of invasive cervical cancer.
In cosmetic and medicinal products, acetone is used in body rubs, hand lotions, after shave lotions, and as an antiseptic.
Antibodies to several specific ARS enzymes have been identified, including anti-histidyl (anti-Jo-1), anti-threonyl (anti-PL-7), anti-alanyl (anti-PL-12), anti-glycyl (anti-Ej), anti-isoleucyl (anti-Oj), anti-asparaginyl (anti-Ks), anti-phenylalanyl (anti-Zo), and anti-tyrosyl (anti-Ha).
Ingestion of oleander can cause both gastrointestinal and cardiac effects.
Information from Tietz Clinical Guide to Laboratory Tests, 4th edition, AHB Wu, 2006.
We have so far managed to identify a little under one hundred of these different types of cells and what makes them so useful is that when a normal lymphocyte change over time from newly built cells into mature cells, the markers also change.
The PEO gene (polymerase (DNA directed), gamma) gene is located on chromosome 15q25.
HEXA mutations are associated with Tay-Sachs disease (GM2-gangliosidosis type I), and HEXB mutations are associated with Sandhoff disease (GM2-gangliosidosis type II).
The protein encoded by this gene contains a DNA/RNA helicase domain at its C-terminal end which suggests that it may be involved in both DNA and RNA processing.
So a combination of 2 procedures can be used in tandem to identify the hemoglobin variants.
U-47700 was originally studied in the 1970s by the Upjohn Company as a potential analgesic but was never brought to market and has become an emerging drug of abuse.
Fosphenytoin (Cerebyx,Prodilantin) is a water-soluble phenytoin prodrug used only in hospitals for the treatment of epileptic seizures.
Yellow-red-brown fine needles, granules, or plates, associated with increased serum bilirubin.
Aspergillus flavus is a fungus known to produce the carcinogen aflatoxin and is pathogenic to several plant and animal species, including humans and domestic animals.
Blomia tropicalis, a Storage mite, was earlier found predominantly in agricultural environments but is now being recognised as an important contributor to the allergen content in house dust in indoor urban dwellings.
This protein is thought to be involved in intracellular signal transduction mechanisms.
Complement C1q initiates the complement pathway by binding to immunoglobulins.
The virus particle, like other Coltiviruses, is ~80 nm in diameter and is generally non-envolped.
Alpha globulins are a group of plasma proteins, belonging to the serpin superfamily, that are highly mobile in alkaline or electrically charged solutions.
Altered forms of this receptor may be associated with some types of cancer.
Rainforest animals such as bandicoots, rats and feral pigs are the main carriers, and probable sources of infection include contact with soil, water or other materials contaminated with the urine of an infected animal.
1,2-dioxane is a peroxide which forms naturally in old bottles of tetrahydrofuran.
Cathepsin K, also known as CTSK is an enzyme which in humans is encoded by the CTSK gene.
Dibenzofuran is an aromatic ether having the chemical formula C12H8O.
The total number of gene segments present is identified based on various techniques including fragment length analysis, and specific probes are used to identify a common set of gene segments.
Clostridium difficile toxin B is a toxin produced by the bacteria Clostridium difficile.
Gemifloxacin mesylate (trade name Factive) is an oral broad-spectrum quinolone antibacterial agent used in the treatment of acute bacterial exacerbation of chronic bronchitis and mild-to-moderate pneumonia
Amb a 1 from Ragweed is a specific marker allergen suitable for discriminating between genuine Ragweed sensitization and crossreactivity.
It has been largely displaced by the development of benzodiazepines.
An enzyme that catalyzes the conversion of an orthophosphoric monoester and water to an alcohol and orthophosphate. .
Cytarabine, or cytosine arabinoside, is a chemotherapy agent used mainly in the treatment of hematological malignancies such as acute myeloid leukemia (AML) and non-Hodgkin lymphoma.
The majority of haemophilus infections are caused by H influenza serotype B (HIB) which causes pneumonia, bacteremia, meningitis, epiglottitis, septic arthritis, cellulitis, otitis media, purulent pericarditis, endocarditis and osteomyelitis.
Botanically, however, the zucchini is an immature fruit, being the swollen ovary of the female zucchini flower.
Recent studies investigate oxytocin's role in various behaviors, including social recognition, pair bonding, anxiety, and maternal behaviors.
An antibacterial agent that is a semisynthetic analog of lincomycin.
Natural killer cell populations may be increased or decreased with various immunologic abnormalities.
Phosphorylation usually results in a functional change of the target protein (substrate) by changing enzyme activity, cellular location, or association with other proteins.
It is used as an adjunct to IGF-1 in the clinical evaluation of growth hormone-related disorders.
Originally native to Asia, now an important food, forage, and cover crop elsewhere.
For children the number is set much lower at 5 µg/dl of blood as of 2012 down from a previous 10 µg/dl.
C. lunata is reported from numerous, mostly monocotyledonous host plants in many tropical countries but also from Canada, the British Isles, France and the Netherlands.
GH stimulation (challenge) tests help to diagnose GH deficiency and hypopituitarism.
Traces of whitlockite have also been found in tuberculous lesions, urinary calculi and even prostatic deposits.
Together these subunits are composed of 4 RNA species and approximately 80 structurally distinct proteins.
Diagnosis of TBE is usually determined by the presence of TBEV-specific IgM and IgG antibodies in serum or cerebral spinal fluid by enzyme-linked immuno-sorbent assay (ELISA).
EMCV is transmitted in contaminated food, water and diseased carcasses.
Ureaplasma, along with Mycoplasma hominis, is known as one of the genital mycoplasma organisms.
Ingestion of Pineapple has been reported to cause asthma, rhinitis and gastrointestinal symptoms.
Elevated level of Dicarboxyoleylcarnitine (C18:1-DC) is a marker for Carnitine-acylcarnitine translocase (CACT), Carnitine palmitoyltransferase II (CPT11), and very long chain acyl-CoA dehydrogenase (VLCAD) deficiencies.
The "Autism Spectrum Disorder Action Plan" is a communication tool medical providers use to inform school staff of a patient's Autism spectrum disorder diagnosis and treatment protocol.
HNPCC is known to be associated with mutations in genes involved in the DNA mismatch repair pathway: MSH2 MLH1 MSH6 PMS2 PMS1 TGFBR2 MLH3
P-tau181 in CSF is thought to aid in the differential diagnosis of AD versus non-AD dementia, such as Lewy body disease.
Genetic characterization of RuV genomes contributes to virus surveillance efforts.
Flurazepam (brand names Dalmane and Dalmadorm) is a drug which is a benzodiazepine derivative.
The extract may be in solid, liquid or oil form.
Oxytetracycline is used to treat acne, due to its activity against the bacteria on the skin that cause acne (Propionebacterium acnes).
Crab is a potent allergen, sometimes causing dramatic manifestations, such as anaphylaxis.
A rise in IRF is one of the earliest indicators of bone marrow engraftment or recovery from intensive chemotherapy.
Mutations in this gene are associated with Menkes disease, X-linked distal spinal muscular atrophy, and occipital horn syndrome.
It has been found to be a tumor marker, elevated in solid tumors, including lung, breast, and bladder.
Yersinia enterocolitica is a heterogeneous group of strains, classified into 6 biogroups, and into more than 57 O serogroups.
Without this enzyme, a buildup of heparan sulfate and dermatan sulfate occurs in the body.
Lithium salts may also be helpful for related diagnoses, such as schizoaffective disorder and cyclic major depression.
Increased levels of this metabolite are found in patients suffering from leucine catabolic disorders, such as 3-methylcrotonyl-CoA carboxylase deficiency.
RNases play a critical role in many biological processes, including angiogenesis and self-incompatibility in flowering plants (angiosperms).
Hemoglobin with a sulfur atom on one of its porphyrin rings
It is the generic name for six compounds (vitamers) with vitamin B6 activity: pyridoxine, an alcohol; pyridoxal, an aldehyde; and pyridoxamine, which contains an amino group; and their respective 5'-phosphate esters.
White blood cells in the urine usually indicate a urinary tract infection (UTI).
Fifty species of Tilia occur from the north temperate regions downward; they are widely distributed in Europe, Asia and North America, and are found as far south as Indochina and Mexico.
Antihistamines are a class of drugs that block the action of histamine at the H1 receptor sites, responsible for immediate hypersensitivity reactions such as sneezing and itching, and they may also be used for their side effects, including sedation and antiemesis.
Mutations in this gene are associated with various cancers, including melanoma, colorectal cancer, ovarian cancer, non-small cell lung carcinoma, and adenocarcinoma of lung.
BLG is the most abundant protein in Whey, accounting for 50% of total protein in the lactoserum fraction and approximately 10% of Cow's milk.
These antibiotics have the ability to kill a wide variety of bacteria.
Airway resistance can be affected by many variables, including airway diameter, lung elasticity, and gas composition.
An enzyme of the oxidoreductase class that catalyzes the formation of L-TYROSINE, dihydrobiopterin, and water from L-PHENYLALANINE, tetrahydrobiopterin, and oxygen.
Prolactin receptors are present in the mammary gland, hypothalamus, liver, ovary, testis, and prostate.
Also, since cross-reactions may occur, e.g., Chagas' disease, malaria, schistosomiasis, positive results provide only suggestive support for the diagnosis.
Barbiturates were first developed in 1864 by Adolf von Baeyer and were widely distributed by the Farbwerke Fr Bayer and Co in 1904.
It is an mTOR inhibitor, and has been effective against renal cell carcinoma, pancreatic neuroendocrine tumors, and advanced kidney tumors, all of which have been unsuccessfully treated with other medications.
Saccharopolyspora rectivirgula, formerly known as Micropolyspora faeni, is an aerobic, thermophilic, gram-positive and filamentous bacterial strain that produces short chains of spores both on substrates and on aerial mycelia.
It has also been found effective for generalized anxiety disorder.
To enumerate and describe HIV-2 cases reported in the United States, a working case definition was developed.
There have been reports of both lesions on the hands of milkers and similar infections in sheep and goats, as well as humans.
One species, A. suum, typically infects pigs, while another, A. lumbricoides, affects human populations, typically in sub-tropical and tropical areas with poor sanitation.
The LAMA3 gene (laminin subunit alpha 3) is located on chromosome 18q11.2.
Blastocystis hominis (B. hominis) is a microscopic parasite that cause blastocystosis in humans.
Whey protein is also used for protein allergy, asthma, high cholesterol, obesity and weight loss, preventing allergies in infants, late-stage cancer, and colon cancer.
Atrophic gastritis can also cause intrinsic factor deficiency and anemia through damage to the parietal cells of the stomach wall.
It can differentiate between resident and newly introduced viruses as well as between vaccine and field strains.
Women who smoke menthol cigarettes retain cotinine in the blood for a longer period.
The SRS and SSS are calculated during the rest and stress parts of the study, respectively, and the SDS is the difference between the two.
Commonly tested Kell antigens include K, k (Cellano), Kp^a (K little p super a), Kp^b (K little p super b), Js^a (J little s super a), and Js^b (J little s super b).
This form of proteinuria is typical for chronic interstitial nephropathy and for acute and chronic tubular damage caused by endogenous and exogenous tubular toxins.
Some (but not all) examples have been associated with terminal illnesses such as Hodgkin's disease, leukemia, sarcomas or other malignancies.
Mosquitos are a vector for several diseases, such as malaria, West Nile, dengue, chikungunya, and Zika virus.
Myasthenia gravis (MG) is an autoimmune disease mediated by antibodies against the acetylcholine receptor (AChR) in the postsynaptic membrane of the motor end plate, but antibodies against other targets, including titin, also play an important role.
It is produced in relatively small quantities, accounting for (with isophorone diisocyanate) only 3.4% of the global diisocyanate market in the year 2000.
© Copyright 1999 by Thomas J. Volk, University of Wisconsin-La Crosse.
Research has shown that the parent compound is extensively metabolized prior to excretion and, as a result, present at very low levels in urine samples.
Horse allergy has also been reported to result in angioedema, respiratory distress, and poorly controlled asthma.
Japanese cedar, also called Sugi tree, is an evergreen growing 30 to 50 metres tall.
- Red Zone - with less than 50% best readings, or symptoms and treatment medications and seeking hospitalization and care.
In particular, excessive phenylalanine can be metabolized into phenylketones through, a transaminase pathway route involving glutamate.
Defects in this gene are the cause of mucopolysaccharidosis type IIIB (MPS-IIIB), also known as Sanfilippo syndrome B.
Mechanism of action : it is a competitive inhibitor of Vitamin K preventing the formation of prothrombin.
Inability of lymphocytes to respond to mitogens is a sign of impaired cell-mediated or humoral immunity.
They are also known as propenoates (since acrylic acid is also known as 2-propenoic acid).
This protein is the only one in the coagulation pathway for which a congenital deficiency has not been described.
Phendimetrazine is chemically related to amphetamines and is a Schedule III drug under the Convention on Psychotropic Substances.
Ketoconazole is very lipophilic, which leads to accumulation in fatty tissues.
alpha-Tocopherol is the main source found in supplements and in the European diet, while gamma-tocopherol is the most common form in the American diet.
M. bovis is usually transmitted to humans by consuming raw, infected cows milk, although it can also spread via aerosol droplets.
Pru av 4 shares over 70% amino acid homology and a very similar tertiary structure with other profilins.
The V173L mutation is associated with Lamivudine, Entecavir and Famciclovir resistance.
Tyrophagus putrescentiae, a dominant species of Storage mite in Korea, is a particularly important cause of allergic disorders in this country.
Studies suggest that this gene plays a role in organ development, wound healing, and tumor progression.
Human bocavirus (HBoV) is a virus belonging to the Parvoviridae family, which has been newly discovered to be associated with respiratory tract infections in children.
ECP may reflect the rate of activation of circulating eosinophils
Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
Higher than normal levels of PSA are associated with both localized and metastatic prostate cancer (CaP).
As of 2019, it is available in the U.S. in combination with glecaprevir, an HCV NS3/NS4A protease inhibitor.
This ferning is a branching pattern seen in the mucus when observed with low magnification.
SCCmec, or staphylococcal cassette chromosome mec, is a mobile genetic element of Staphylococcus bacterial species.
This gene, a Kirsten ras oncogene homolog from the mammalian ras gene family, encodes a protein that is a member of the small GTPase superfamily.
A conscious sedation procedure note is a clinical note written for moderate sedation and analgesia before, during, and after procedures.
Radial strains, alone, are not strong predictors of infarct size.
Urine levels of OPC3373 appear to be a reliable marker for monitoring patient compliance for medication adherence.
Deficiency of the muscle-specific enzyme is apparently a common cause of exercise-induced myopathy and probably the most common cause of metabolic myopathy in the human.
The coagulation of blood is a complex process during which blood forms solid clots.
The symptoms usually persist for between 24 hours and a week, but may be longer.
Latex that is used industrially is obtained from the rubber tree.
Studies between the Japanese and Caucasian population have shown 85 to 90% of individuals diagnosed with narcolepsy have DR2/DQ1.
LDLR mutations result in defective binding of LDL to the LDL receptor, resulting in increased circulating levels of LDL.
Testing for IgE antibodies may be used to help diagnose an allergic disease or the cause of an anaphylactic episode in a patient.
The most important House dust mites are Dermatophagoides farinae, which is more common in drier areas, and D. pteronyssinus.
The fractional excretion of urea is a measure of the percentage of urea excreted in the urine versus the urea reabsorbed by the kidney.
A bicyclic monoterpene ketone found widely in plant (primarily the camphor tree, Cinnamomum camphora).
Voltage-dependent calcium channels mediate the entry of calcium ions into excitable cells, and are also involved in a variety of calcium-dependent processes, including muscle contraction, hormone or neurotransmitter release, and gene expression.
Side effects from taking Levetiracetam can include aggression or agitation, drowsiness, reduced consciousness, and even coma.
Histamine is an organic nitrogen compound involved in local immune responses as well as regulating physiological function in the gut and acting as a neurotransmitter.
This difference is used for measurement of the amount of oxygen in patient's blood by an instrument called pulse oximeter.
Sindbis Virus (SINV) is a member of the Togaviridae family, in the alphavirus subfamily.
In newborns, fetal hemoglobin is nearly completely replaced by adult hemoglobin by approximately 6 months postnatally.
Immunoglobulin M (IgM) is a glycoprotein that consists of five disulfide-linked structural units (a pentamer) held together by a J chain.
Normally non-pathogenic Neisseria species can become critical infections in immunocompromised patients.
Its main use, however, is as a precursor to polymers.
US Department of Agriculture Kansas Wildflowers and Grasses - Johnson grass page.
It can be taken by mouth, or by injection, in conjunction with other drugs to treat epilepsy.
CD7 (Cluster of Differentiation 7) is a human protein encoded by the CD7 gene.
There are five subclasses of HDL including pre beta-1, small alpha-4, medium alpha-3, large alpha-2 and very large alpha-1.
Asthmatic patients with eosinophilic inflammation have elevated levels of ECP in serum and other body fluids such as bronchial alveolar fluid and (induced) sputum.
FANCC gene determines the risk of developing Fanconi anemia-C disease.
CDG are characterized by an array of multi-systemic disorders that include developmental delay, hypotonia, with or without neurological abnormalities, abnormal magnetic resonance imaging findings, skin manifestations, and coagulopathy.
It is used in tuberculosis diagnosis by whole blood interferon γ tests, e.g. QuantiFERON-TB Gold and T-SPOT.TB, in conjunction with ESAT-6 and TB7.7 (QuantiFERON-TB Gold).
This gene is located at the chemokine receptor gene cluster region.
Like the other drugs in this class chlorpromazine's antipsychotic actions are thought to be due to long-term adaptation by the brain to blocking DOPAMINE RECEPTORS.
The encoded protein is a large, extracellular matrix glycoprotein that serve as a structural component of 10-12 nm calcium-binding microfibrils.
A species of AVIBIRNAVIRUS causing severe inflammation of the bursa of Fabricius in chickens and other fowl.
Some of the larger tuna species such as the bluefin tuna can raise their blood temperature above the water temperature with muscular activity.
The temperature setting is the goal temperature for the environment.
This gene encodes an enzyme that removes the C(7-8) double bond in the B ring of sterols and catalyzes the conversion of 7-dehydrocholesterol to cholesterol.
HGF is secreted as an inactive polypeptide and is cleaved by serine proteases into a 69-kDa alpha-chain and 34-kDa beta-chain.
Its side chain is an amide formed by replacing a hydroxyl of glutamic acid with an amine group.
The PSAP gene (surfactant protein A1) is located on chromosome 10q22.3.
After extreme exposure, symptoms can include involuntary defecation or urination, psychosis, irregular heartbeat, unconsciousness, convulsions, coma, and death due to respiratory failure or cardiac arrest.
Ombitasvir (ABT-267) is a hepatitis C virus (HCV) NS5A inhibiting antiviral drug for the treatment of HCV infection..
It is readily soluble in water, ethanol, ether, etc., and itself serves as an important solvent.
It is formed by hydrolysis of phosphatidylcholine by the enzyme phospholipase A2, as part of the de-acylation/re-acylation cycle that controls its overall molecular species composition.
Other CAL serogroup viruses found in the United States include La Crosse virus (LACV), Jamestown Canyon virus (JCV), Snowshoe hare virus, and Trivitattus virus.
These include invasive candidiasis, invasive aspergillosis, and emerging fungal infections.
Elevation of CSF free and total GABA are characteristic of GABA-T and SSADH deficiency, where-as low CSF GABA has been reported in pyridoxal-5-phosphate dependent seizures.
It translates Messenger RNA (mRNA) into a polypeptide chain (e.g., a protein).
The ITS region contains portions that are highly conserved across species as well as those that are species-specific.
By the early 20th century, the toxicity of benzopyrene was demonstrated when malignant skin tumors were produced in laboratory animals by repeatedly painting them with coal tar.
Panel for the quantitation of immunoglobin heavy and light chain absolute values and their ratios.
The RS1 gene (retinoschisin 1) is located on chromosome Xp22.13.
Tobramycin is also combined with dexamethasone as an ophthalmic solution (TobraDex®).
The gene is located within a cluster of cytochrome P450 genes on chromosome 10q24.
It is unable to survive in locations away from humans or human activity.
Foods commonly found to be polluted with DDT and DDE include root crops, leafy vegetables, fatty meats, fish, and poultry.
The RUNX1 gene (runt related transcription factor 1) is located on chromosome 21q22.12.
The ATP5A1 gene encodes the alpha subunit of mitochondrial ATP synthase F1 complex.
Sapele, Sapelli, or Aboudikro (Entandrophragma cylindricum) is a large tree, up to 45 m high (rarely 60 m), native to tropical Africa.
4-Hydroxybenzoic acid, or p-hydroxybenzoic acid, is a phenolic derivative of benzoic acid.
Two types of fibronectin are present in vertebrates: - soluble plasma fibronectin (formerly called "cold-insoluble globulin", or CIg) is a major protein component of blood plasma (300 μg/ml) and is produced in the liver by hepatocytes.
The risk for symptomatic infection is directly related to age, with >80% of adults having symptoms compatible with acute viral hepatitis and the majority of children having either asymptomatic or unrecognized infection.
EC adheres to the small intestine using adhesin factors, and produces one or more exotoxins that induce fluid and electrolyte secretion.
Some people lack sufficient xanthine oxidase, and thus xanthine cannot be converted to uric acid.
Orexin A and orexin B, which bind to orphan G-protein coupled receptors HCRTR1 and HCRTR2, function in the regulation of sleep and arousal.
The 60+ known gangliosides differ mainly in the position and number of NANA residues.
Etiocholanone is a pyrogen, causing fever mediated by interleukin-1 release.
It can be used in hospital settings, emergency departments and mobile crisis teams.
Aztreonam is stable to the metallo-β-lactamases but many IMP and VIM producers are resistant, owing to other mechanisms.
Symptoms of endrin poisoning include epileptiform convulsions, stupor, headache, dizziness, abdominal discomfort, nausea, vomiting, insomnia, aggressiveness, confusion, drowsiness, lassitude, and anorexia.
The surfactant is secreted by the alveolar cells of the lung and maintains the stability of pulmonary tissue by reducing the surface tension of fluids that coat the lung.
Cat flea allergens may contribute to the allergenicity of house dust in areas of heavy flea infestation.
Approximately 100 mutations in the BTD gene that lead to biotinidase deficiency have been discovered.
Prolonged use can lead to physical tolerance and dependence, which has caused a significant decrease in their use over time.
The presence of nGly m 5 beta-conglycinin IgE antibodies (allergen code f431) indicates an allergy to soybeans.
A tetradecapeptide originally obtained from the skins of toads Bombina bombina and B. variegata.
It is caused by mutations in the gene encoding the cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator expressed in several organs including the lung, the pancreas, the biliary system, and the sweat glands.
Chromatin is smudged and surrounded by a very scant amount of basophilic cytoplasm or no cytoplasm at all.
It causes bronchopneumonia in foals and can be responsible for infection in humans compromised by immunosuppressive drug therapy, lymphoma, or AIDS.
WDEIA is a severe allergic reaction that is characterized by symptoms that range from urticaria to respiratory, gastrointestinal, or cardiovascular distress that is brought on by exercise 1 to 4 hours after the ingestion of wheat.
Zygosity testing is performed for several reasons, including determining genetic risk for an individual whose sibling is affected with a genetic disorder for which a specific genetic test is uninformative or not available, assessing risks prenatally when one fetus of multiples is known to be affected by a specific disorder, performing organ or bone marrow transplantation compatibility testing, evaluating twin-twin transfusion syndrome during pregnancy, and for general familial or parental interest.
Cefacetrile (INN, also spelled cephacetrile) is a broad-spectrum first generation cephalosporin antibiotic effective in Gram-positive and Gram-negative bacterial infections.
The SCN5A gene (sodium channel, voltage gated, type V alpha subunit) is located on chromosome 3p21.
The encoded protein has been identified as a moonlighting protein based on its ability to perform mechanistically distinct functions.
Noninvasive, quantitative body measurements used to assess nutritional status such as; height, weight, body mass index (BMI), growth pattern indices, percentile ranks, and weight history.
It is an aromatic hydrocarbon that is widely used as an industrial feedstock and as a solvent.
Amylase is found in saliva and breaks starch into maltose and dextrin.
Deficiencies of DHA have been associated with fetal alcohol syndrome, attention deficit hyperactivity disorder, cystic fibrosis, phenylketonuria, unipolar depression, aggressive hostility, adrenoleukodystrophy, cognitive decline in aging individuals, and the onset of sporadic Alzheimer's disease.
von Willebrand factor (vWF) cleaving protease, or ADAMTS13, is a metalloprotease that cleaves vWF and thereby limits platelet aggregation and formation of microthrombi.
In humans it is encoded by the DHFR gene, and can be the target of drugs such as methotrexate used to treat certain neoplasms and inflammatory diseases.
CN-1A is most abundant in skeletal muscle and is involved in a variety of functions, including DNA repair metabolism.
Collagenase production can be induced during an immune response, by cytokines that stimulate cells such as fibroblasts and osteoblasts, and cause indirect tissue damage
These seeds are red with a black spot covering one end.
Coagulation factor inhibitors can develop in patients with coagulation factor deficiencies after receiving factor therapy as well as in response to various antibiotics, chemotherapy and other conditions such as autoimmune disorders.
Ribose 5-phosphate isomerase (RPI) is part of the pentose phosphate pathway and synthesizes D-ribose 5-phosphate from D-ribulose 5-phosphate.
Edible Onions are not known in the wild, but are grown only in cultivated beds.
In pneumocytes, the choline-based phospholipids that are stored in the lamellar bodies, serve as pulmonary surfactant after being released from the cell.
A spice, which may result in allergy symptoms in sensitised individuals.
This enzyme catalyzes the reaction of ATP and bicarbonate to produce carbonyl phosphate and ADP.
Coxsackie (virus) is a cytolytic virus of the Picornaviridae family, an enterovirus (a group containing the polioviruses, coxsackieviruses, and echoviruses).
HDL corresponds to the electrophoretic alpha band, LDL to the beta band, IDL to the broad beta band, and VLDL to the pre-beta band.
In some countries, Sulfachloropyridazine is used to treat urinary tract infections in humans.
8-OHdG is a sensitive marker of the DNA damage This damage, if left unrepaired, has been proposed to contribute to mutagenicity and cancer promotion.
PF4 autoantibodies have also been observed in patients with thrombosis and features resembling HIT although these patients did not receive heparin.
Low levels of THA in urine indicate long term adrenal insufficiency.
Persistent infection with a subset of about a dozen so-called high-risk sexually transmitted HPVs, including types 16,18,31, and 33, can lead to the development of anogenital cancers, including cervical, penile and anal.
This gene encodes a member of the gap junction protein family.
Too little sodium can lead to muscle spasms, cramps, headache, irritability, restlessness, nausea and fatigue.
In humans, deficiency in phosphoglycerate mutase function presents as a metabolic myopathy and is one of the many forms of syndromes formerly referred to as muscular dystrophy.
It occurs as a colorless liquid with a peppermint odor.
Complement tests measure either the quantity or the activity (function) of complement proteins.
IL-1β precursor is cleaved by caspase 1 (interleukin 1 beta convertase).
Typical excretion of hippuric acid in non-exposed patients is 1.0 g/g creatinine.
Healthy adults who become infected by the virus may experience flu -like symptoms, such as high fevers and headaches.
Maximum inspiratory pressure (MIP) is the maximum pressure that can be generated against an occluded airway beginning at functional residual capacity (FRC) and reflects the strength and function of inspiratory muscles.
Scorzonera hispanica, commonly known as Black salsify or Spanish salsify, is a perennial herbaceous plant native to Europe and belonging to the genus Scorzonera in the sunflower family (Asteraceae).
This heavy, brittle, white crystalline trivalent poor metal has a pink tinge and chemically resembles arsenic and antimony.
Seventy-five percent of patients allergic to walnuts have demonstrated elevated IgE antibody titers to Jug r 1.
This is a description of the REMS implementation system, for standardizing the risk evaluation and mitigation strategies (REMS) information for inclusion into pharmacy systems.
In addition, this gene is disrupted in patients with CMT1A (Charcot-Marie-Tooth type 1A) duplication and with HNPP (hereditary neuropathy with liability to pressure palsies) deletion.
The distance from the nerve stimulation site to the impulse recording site for nerve conduction studies.
Unlike other food allergies, Peanut allergy usually begins in childhood and persists throughout the affected individual's lifetime.
Mutations in the MLH1, MSH2, MSH6, and PMS2 genes, which are involved in DNA mismatch repair, are associated with hereditary nonpolyposis colorectal cancer (HNPCC), an autosomal dominant cancer syndrome that confers an elevated risk of early-onset colorectal cancer (CRC).
Mugwort is native to Europe, Asia and northern Africa, but is now also present in North America where it is an invasive weed.
The F41 fimbria is one of the virulence factors associated with postweaning diarrhea (PWD) only in swine.
Linseed plants are shorter, and their flowers are commonly bright blue, less commonly pale blue or white, while most flax cultivars bear white flowers.
Recombinant non-glycosylated protein produced in an E. coli strain carrying a cloned cDNA encoding Betula verrucosa allergen Bet v 1
Dopamine receptor D1 (DRD1) is a subtype of the dopamine receptor.
The disease is endemic in much of Asia, Central and South America, and parts of Europe and Africa.
The protein encoded by this gene binds to the "plus" ends of actin monomers and filaments to prevent monomer exchange.
This is not thought to be a complete or final list, and further types are likely to be found.
It is highly toxic if inhaled or ingested and is moderately toxic if absorbed through the skin.
It can be considered to be an autosomal dominant disorder and is caused by deletion or disruption of a gene or several genes on the proximal long arm of the paternal chromosome 15 or maternal uniparental disomy 15, because the gene(s) on the maternal chromosome(s) 15 are virtually inactive through imprinting.
ERAVs are thought to be a common cause of upper and lower respiratory tract disease in horses
The Elder tree and other species of Sambucus comprise fast-growing small trees or large shrubs, 1-4 m tall.
Infection with B. quintana occurs when an infected louse defecates while feeding on a human.
Specific ESBLs include TEM, SHV, and the CTX-M groups, which are the most clinically prevalent, and VEB, PER, BEL, and GES, which are less common.
It is carried by Glossina pallidipes, G. morsitans and occasionally other species of game-attacking tsetse flies.
Norquetiapine, unlike quetiapine but similar to some other antidepressants, prevents the reuptake of norepinephrine (NE) at the noradrenaline transporter (NET).
Coxsackievirus A9 (CVA9) is non-enveloped, icosahedral, positive-sense RNA virus that is classified as part of the Human enterovirus B group (HEV-B).
Sufentanil is a powerful opioid agonist and is used as a primary anesthetic drug, adjunct in anesthesia, and in balanced anesthesia.
Leflunomide is a disease-modifying antirheumatic drug (DMARD) used alone or in combination with other medications to treat rheumatoid arthritis.
Of all species, Cryptococcus neoformans is the major human and animal pathogen.
Hemoglobin C (abbreviated as Hb C or HbC) is an abnormal hemoglobin with substitution of a glutamic acid residue for a lysine residue at the 6th position of the β-globin chain.
The interleukin 2 (IL2) receptor alpha (IL2RA) and beta (IL2RB) chains, together with the common gamma chain (IL2RG), constitute the high-affinity IL2 receptor.
It is a fat-soluble vitamin that is stable to air and moisture but decomposes in sunlight.
It is thought that this protein functions to regulate iron absorption by regulating the interaction of the transferrin receptor with transferrin.
The 90Sr isotope is present in radioactive fallout and has a half-life of 28.90 years.
It is spread by the ingestion of feces from infected pigs, resulting in vomiting, watery diarrhea, dehydration, and high mortality, especially in nursery piglets.
Monocyte distribution width (MDW) is the measure of a change in the size distribution of circulating monocytes.
3-Hydroxyisobutyrate dehydrogenase (HIBADH) is a dimeric mitochondrial enzyme involved in amino-acid degradation, specifically catabolism of L-valine.
It is sold as a dietary supplement for purported mood and weight loss-related therapeutic benefits; however, orally ingested phenethylamine is usually inactive on account of extensive first-pass metabolism by monoamine oxidase (MAO) into phenylacetic acid, preventing significant concentrations from reaching the brain.
Parainfluenza virus diseases are usually endemic although they can be epidemic.
Patients with the weak D variant do not typically have anti-D antibodies.
It acts by inhibiting cGMP specific phosphodiesterase type 5, an enzyme that regulates blood flow in the penis.
Working concentration in the lab: up to 100 µg per ml.
This metastasis suppressor gene product is a membrane glycoprotein that is a member of the transmembrane 4 superfamily.
At least fourteen different transcript variants encoding fourteen different isoforms have been found for this gene.
The virus loses its temporary membrane and the NSP4 glycoprotein as it moves toward the center of the ER cisternae.
ASFV infects domestic pigs, warthogs and bushpigs, as well as soft ticks.
Increased levels are seen with gluconeogenesis, PHD complex deficiency, respiratory chain defects, IVA,PA, MMA, multiple carboxylase deficiency,3-methylcrotonyl-CoA carboxylase deficiency, glyceroluria, MSUD, GA I, MAD deficiency,Beta-ketothiolase deficiencies,2-amino/2-ketoadipic acidemia, mitochondrial SCHAD, and fatty acids oxidation deficiency.
Atomexetine can be taken either as a daily or twice daily medication and has a low potential for abuse, which is useful for patients who have a history of substance abuse as well as patients who have comorbid anxiety or tics.
This inhibition creates a negative potential in the luminal membranes of principal cells, located in the distal convoluted tubule and collecting duct.
FISH studies are commonly used to identify deletions of chromosome 13q14 and 17p13, which are known to cause chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL).
Activity of this protein can modulate the expression of genes involved in cell cycle regulation as well as in body weight homeostasis.
HNP-1 and HNP-2 are encoded by the DEFA1 gene, and HNP-3 is encoded by DEFA3 gene.
It is part of the skin flora of humans, and its largest populations are usually found at the axillae, perineum, and inguinal areas.
A preparation of chicle, sometimes mixed with other plastic substances, sweetened and flavored.
The TNM pathologic stage as recorded by the ambulatory healthcare provider (physician), provides detailed site-specific information on the progression of disease for the cancer or tumor and is based on information acquired before treatment and modified by the additional evidence acquired during and from surgery, particularly from pathologic examination of resected tissues.
Different antibodies or patterns of antibodies have been associated with specific clinical features.
Mutations causing Bloom syndrome delete or alter helicase motifs and may disable the 3'-5' helicase activity.
Stigmasterol is a phytosterol, meaning it is steroid derived from plants.
Borderline (intermediate) leprosy accounts for the majority of cases and encompassess characteristics of both tuberculoid and lepromatous leprosy.
The strongest expression of this mRNA is in placental tissue; in adults, mesodermally derived tissues express this mRNA preferentially.
The F12 gene (coagulation factor XII (Hageman factor)) is located on chromosome 5q35.3.
The malate anion is an intermediate in the citric acid cycle.
Alpha thalassemias result from deletions of each of the alpha genes as well as deletions of both HBA2 and HBA1; some nondeletion alpha thalassemias have also been reported.
HF is widely used in the petrochemical industry and a component of many superacids.
VIP stimulates contractility in the heart, causes vasodilation, increases glycogenolysis, lowers arterial blood pressure and relaxes the smooth muscle of trachea, stomach and gall bladder.
Defects in this gene can cause emphysema or liver disease.
Urinary galactosyl hydroxylysine/creatinine ratio is a quantitative marker of the activity of Paget's bone disease.
It is used parenterally to treat septicemia, ;neumonie, cellulitis, endocarditis, and methicillin-resistant S aureus meningitis.
WEE is commonly a subclinical infection; symptomatic infections are uncommon.
Temperature difference between two body sites or body site and reference temperature.
Demeclocycline (marketed as Declomycin®, Declostatin® and Ledermycin®) is a member of the tetracycline antibiotics group used in various types of bacterial infections.
The KCNQ1 gene (potassium channel, voltage gated KQT-like subfamily Q, member 1) is located on chromosome 11p15.5.
Everyone receives the core assessment called CHA; only those with specific problem sets receive one or more of the following four supplements: 1) The interRAI Functional Supplement (interRAI CHA-FS) includes an expanded set of functional and clinical items that informs and guides comprehensive care and service planning for more challenged persons in community-based settings; 2) The interRAI Mental Health Supplement (interRAI CHA-MH) includes an expanded item set on mental health- related diagnoses, symptoms, treatments, and life experiences.
SELL is a cell surface component that is a member of a family of adhesion/homing receptors which play important roles in leukocyte-endothelial cell interactions.
Identifying the presence of these genes is important in monitoring drug resistance and determining the best antibiotic therapy methods.
Its function is to bind and transport low molecular weight retinol-binding proteins, preventing their glomerular filtration.
Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms have been observed.
L-serine (L-ser) is an amino acid that plays a central role in cellular proliferation and is the major source of one-carbon groups for the de novo synthesis of purine nucleotides and deoxythymidine monophosphate.
4-Nitrophenol (also called p-nitrophenol or 4-hydroxynitrobenzene) is a phenolic compound that has a nitro group at the opposite position of hydroxy group on the benzene ring.
Tissue polypeptide specific antigen (TPS) is a proteolytic fragment of cytokeratin 18 and is an epitope of TPA.
Antibodies to Coccidioides TP antigen usually appear during the first week of infection, and remain detectable for approximately 5 months.
Two of the genes, hemagglutinin (HA) and neuraminidase (NA), determine the structure of the two primary surface proteins of influenza viruses.
Mammalian mitochondrial ribosomal proteins are encoded by nuclear genes and help in protein synthesis within the mitochondrion.
Succinate semialdehyde dehydrogenase (SSADH) is a mitochondrial protein involved in the degradation of gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA), an inhibitory neurotransmitter.
It is a short-acting nonbenzodiazepine hypnotic that potentiates gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA), an inhibitory neurotransmitter, by binding to gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABAA) receptors at the same location as benzodiazepines.
Since lactose occurs mostly in milk, in most species the production of lactase gradually ceases with maturity, and they are then unable to metabolise lactose.
MYOC is expressed in many occular tissues, including the trabecular meshwork, and was revealed to be the trabecular meshwork glucocorticoid-inducible response protein (TIGR).
A rare, metallic element designated by the symbol, Ga, atomic number 31, and atomic weight 69.72.
Neural Cell Adhesion Molecule (NCAM, also the cluster of differentiation CD56) is a homophilic binding glycoprotein expressed on the surface of neurons, glia, skeletal muscle and natural killer cells.
Fluoxetine was derived from diphenhydramine, an antihistamine found to inhibit reuptake of the neurotransmitter serotonin.
Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been found for this gene.
Natto (a traditional Japanese food made from fermented soybeans) has high amounts of menaquinones.
The encoded protein controls the expression of several genes, including hepatocyte nuclear factor 1 alpha, a transcription factor which regulates the expression of several hepatic genes.
The protein is found in plasma as a monomer, homodimer, or heterodimer with apolipoprotein D. Defects in this gene may result in apolipoprotein A-II deficiency or hypercholesterolemia.
More than 30 loci (SPG1-33) have been implicated in hereditary spastic paraplegia diseases.
Cathepsin S has been shown to be a significant prognostic factor for patients with type IV astrocytomas (glioblastoma multiforme), and its inhibition has shown improvement in survival time by mean average 5 months.
Hypochromia (or hypochromasia) is a result of decreased hemoglobin, and appears as increasing size in the zone of central pallor, often graded as 0, 1+, 2+, 3+, 4+.
Guinea Pigs have also been invaluable in research laboratories, where they have been used in fields such as nutrition, pathology, genetics, and toxicology.
This gene product is the main apolipoprotein of chylomicrons and low density lipoproteins.
If untreated, mental retardation effects and microcephaly are evident by the first year along with other symptoms which include: unusual irritability, epileptic seizures and skin lesions.
Furcation is bone loss, usually due to periodontal disease, which affects the area of the tooth where the roots diverge.
It has two mechanisms of action: 1) promoting inactivation of sodium channels; and 2) modulating high affinity GABA A receptors.
Abrin has some potential medical uses, such as in treatment to kill cancer cells.
If the level of hydrogen rises above 20 ppm (parts per million) over the lowest preceding value within the test period, the patient is typically diagnosed as a lactose malabsorber.
Many of its clinical applications, such as ANTIRHEUMATIC AGENTS, are in the form of its salts.
The Douglas fir is a tall evergreen timber tree, with short needles and egg-shaped cones similar to those of a Fir tree, but it is not a true Fir.
Mexiletine hydrochloride (also known as Mexitil) is indicated for treatment of documented arrhythmias, such as sustained ventricular tachycardia, that are life treatening.
The product of this gene functions as a gated pore that translocates ADP from the cytoplasm into the mitochondrial matrix and ATP from the mitochondrial matrix into the cytoplasm.
The indentation on one side of the red cell is missing.
The other function of Lp-PLA2 is that is oxidatively hydrolyzes modified polyunsaturated fatty acids resulting in the chemical compounds lysophosphatidylcholine (LysoPC) and oxidized nonesterified fatty acids (OxNEFA).
Synthetic cannabinoids interact with the same brain receptors as THC (the active drug present in marijuana) and have been demonstrated to produce similar effects.
Therefore, the term can refer to products of widely varied compositions and characteristics.
POL3RA protein is part of the active center of the polymerase.
Cocklebur and Giant ragweed were highly potent in their ability to competitively bind to Short ragweed IgE.
The F-box proteins are divided into 3 classes: Fbws containing WD-40 domains, Fbls containing leucine-rich repeats, and Fbxs containing either different protein-protein interaction modules or no recognizable motifs.
(1 + K41 + K42) * / (AlphaT *) or GT = BetaT * (DT +) * / (AlphaT *) from serum or plasma concentrations of thyrotropin (TSH) and free (FT4) or total (TT4) thyroxine and some constants (AlphaT = Dilution factor for T4: 0.1 l-1; BetaT = Clearance exponent for T4: 1.1e-6 sec-1; K41 = Dissociation constant T4-TBG: 2e10 l/mol; K42 = Dissociation constant T4-TBPA: 2e8 l/mol, DT = EC50 for TSH: 2.75 mU/l)
(Ravel R. Clinical Laboratory Medicine: Clinical Application of Laboratory Data.
Since these two proteins may associate with each other in the red cell membrane, the null would presumably lack both the Xg and CD99 proteins.
Venlafaxine extended-release (long-acting) capsules are also used to treat generalized anxiety disorder (GAD; excessive worrying that is difficult to control), social anxiety disorder (extreme fear of interacting with others or performing in front of others that interferes with normal life), and panic disorder (sudden, unexpected attacks of extreme fear and worry about these attacks).
Mutations in the LRRK2 (PARK8) gene are the most common known cause of autosomal dominant Parkinson disease (PD).
Heterozygotes generally have antithrombin levels between 45-75%, although levels as high as 78% have been observed.
Proerythroblasts arise from the CFU-e (colony-forming unit erythroid) cells, and give rise to basophilic erythroblasts.
Methods such as PEG precipitation can separate macroprolactin and big prolactin from monomeric prolactin in order to obtain a more accurate measurement of biologically active prolactin, and chromatography can be used to further characterize the isoforms if necessary.
Clonidine is administered in the morning after an overnight fast, and blood samples are collected at predefined intervals.
Rose-hips are a popular natural remedy for many complaints, including osteoarthritis, rheumatoid arthritis, and lower back pain.
This protein combines with the beta 2 chain (ITGB2) to form a leukocyte-specific integrin referred to as inactivated-C3b (iC3b) receptor 4 (CR4).
Prazepam is a prodrug for desmethyldiazepam which is an active metabolite of prazepam.
Arizona cypress is the only Cypress native to the southwest of North America and has been widely exported, especially to Europe Arizona cypress, in common with the other members of the Cupressaceae family, is an important source of allergens, causing winter respiratory allergies and commonly inducing symptoms of asthma, hayfever, and allergic conjunctivitis in sensitised individuals.
It contains a forkhead-associated protein interaction domain essential for activation in response to DNA damage and is rapidly phosphorylated in response to replication blocks and DNA damage.
One such variant is c.2155T>C (p.Trp719Arg; rs20455), which may also play a role in individual patient responses to statin therapy.
The gene mutations that cause SCID are not just for the disorder.
In PWS, the maternally inherited copies of genes are virtually silent due to imprinting.
THF has an odor similar to its chemical cousin, diethyl ether, but is a much less potent anesthetic than diethyl ether.
It is typically linked to varying numbers of sialic acid, a monosaccharide carbohydrate.
At least one functioning copy of FUT1 needs to be present (H/H or H/h) for the H antigen to be produced on RBCs.
In the past, connexin protein names were based on their molecular weight, however the new nomenclature uses sequential numbers based on which form (alpha or beta) of the gap junction is present.
The bark is a pale gray or whitish brown, scaly, and deeply furrowed, and the twigs are hairy.
Neomycin is an aminoglycoside antibiotic that is found in many topical medications such as creams, ointments and eyedrops.
The "Type I Diabetes Action Plan" is a communication tool medical providers use to inform school staff of a patient's diabetic condition and treatment protocol.
Benzylpiperazine (BZP) is a recreational drug with euphoric, stimulant properties.
It is exclusively present in the B-cells of both healthy and neoplastic germinal centres.
There are seven different genera in the family classified as rabbits, including the European Rabbit (Oryctolagus cuniculus), cottontail rabbits (genus Sylvilagus ; 13 species), and the Amami Rabbit (Pentalagus furnessi, an endangered species on Amami Oshima, Japan).
It is becoming a more accepted treatment for insomnia, because clonidine is less addictive than most prescription sleep aids.
Fibronectin is a high-molecular weight (~440kDa) extracellular matrix glycoprotein that binds to membrane-spanning receptor proteins called integrins.
It is also called Lewis x and SSEA-1 (stage specific embryonic antigen 1) and represents a marker for murine pluripotent stem cells, in which it plays an important role in adhesion and migration of the cells in the preimplantation embryo.
Defects in this gene are a cause of Fukuyama-type congenital muscular dystrophy (FCMD), Walker-Warburg syndrome (WWS), limb-girdle muscular dystrophy type 2M (LGMD2M), and dilated cardiomyopathy type 1X (CMD1X).
The four principal classes of macronutrients that provide energy to humans are: carbohydrate, fat, protein and alcohol.
Smudge-like nuclear chromatin also aids in the identification of a cell as a micromegakaryocyte.
It strengthens blood vessels and plays a role in tissue development.
It was 25 years before these groups were shown to be inherited as Mendelian characters by means of three allelomorphic genes A, B and O and were, in fact, entities of one blood group system.
Intensity is proportional to sound pressure and is related to the perception of loudness, while frequency is related to the perception of pitch.
Low levels indicate muscle carnitene deficiency with muscle weakness, or secondary carnitene deficiency associated with renal failure, cirrhosis and many other defects.
The antibodies that attack the neural tissue develop in response to tumor cells.
It was first discovered as an essential nutrient (vitamin) in humans through its link with the peripheral nervous system disease Beriberi, which results from a deficiency of thiamine in the diet.
Both the peptides and intact granulin protein regulate cell growth.
Eosinophils are the cells chiefly responsible for producing the inflammation associated with asthma.
Tipranavir, or tipranavir disodium, is a nonpeptidic protease inhibitor (PI) manufactured by Boehringer-Ingelheim under the trade name Aptivus.
The KCNJ11 gene (potassium channel, inwardly rectifying subfamily J, member 11) is located on chromosome 11p15.1.
Paradoxically, however, in myocardial infarct patients with either symptomatic or asymptomatic arrhythmia, flecainide exacerbates the arrhythmia and is not recommended for use in these patients.
Thus, a drug is simply a definition that helps distinguish whether a molecule is synthesized in vivo or in vitro.
The anti-CD20 mAB Ofatumumab (Genmab) was approved by FDA in Oct 2009 for Chronic lymphocytic leukemia.
One study showed that exposure to the virus could be detected as early as day 7 and up to 141 days after field virus exposure.
Expansion pressures can range from 10 to 20 atm, and expansion time ranges from 30-60 sec.
A fibrin-stabilizing plasma enzyme (TRANSGLUTAMINASES) that is activated by THROMBIN and CALCIUM to form FACTOR XIIIA.
Mitochondrial ribosomes (mitoribosomes) consist of a small 28S subunit and a large 39S subunit.
The cerebral atrophic index (CAI or ATI) is the ratio of cerebrospinal fluid or infarcted brain to intracranial volume.
This neuropeptide arrangement may also play a role in feeding behavior, metabolism, and homeostasis.
hMPV is thought to be responsible for about 5% to 10% of pediatric hospitalizations of those suffering from acute respiratory tract infection.
It is a glycoprotein, growth factor or cytokine produced by a number of different tissues to stimulate the bone marrow to produce granulocytes and stem cells.
A lipoprotein with pronounced electronegative surface charge found in association with platelet membrane and platelet granules.
Von Willebrand disease (vWD) is the most common hereditary coagulation abnormality described in humans, although it can also be acquired as a result of other medical conditions.
Lanosterol is biochemically synthesized starting from acetyl-CoA by the HMG-CoA reductase pathway.
In the remaining cases, an affected individual inherits a copy of 4p- a parent who carries a balanced chromosomal rearrangement between chromosome 4 and another chromosome.
A few species are saprophytes and occur in the natural environment.
It is performed on blood drawn from a vein in your arm.
Major histocompatibility complex, class II, DR beta 5, also known as HLA-DRB5, is a human gene.
Homocarnosine, rather than carnosine, is the major imidazole dipeptide in human CSF and can be detected in the CSF of normal infants and young children, while either not detectable or present only in small amounts in the CSF of normal adults.
Results suggest that men whose sperm fail the hamster test are three times less fertile than those whose sperm pass.
Increased levels may be seen in patients with severe vomiting, cushing syndrome, and metabolic alkalosis.
It also induces production of other lymphokines including Tumor Necrosis Factor, g Interferon, and Interleukin 6.
The PTPN11 gene (protein tyrosine phosphatase, non-receptor type 11) is located on chromosome 12q24.
The mechanical dyssynchrony index, also known as the Yu index, is one measure of systolic dyssynchrony and is calculated based on the standard deviation of the time to peak systolic velocity for each segment as measured by echo.
To date, mutations in SDHA have not been associated with PHEO or PGL syndromes.
For example, most of the human Y chromosome is made of constitutive heterochromatin.
Mutations in this gene are associated with glutaric aciduria type III.
This fact makes NAA a reliable diagnostic molecule for doctors treating patients with brain damage or disease.
When not symptomatic HSV lies dormant in nerve cells, growing along the axons of the skin during an outbreak.
As a neuromuscular blocking agent it is more potent than CURARE but has less effect on the circulatory system and on histamine release.
This protein inhibits the transcriptional activity of MYC by competing for MAX, another basic helix-loop-helix protein that binds to MYC and is required for its function.
Assays targeting the conserved portion can be used to detect the presence of a pathogen, and if a pathogen is detected, further testing to determine the specific organism present is performed.
Other cultivars bear large, short-fruited square berries with rounded edges; these are eaten as vegetables.
Methadone (also known as Symoron, Dolophine, Amidone, Methadose, Physeptone, Heptadon and many other names) is a synthetic opioid.
These two tests can be used together to distinguish the presence of SA from MRSA.
Ispaghula husk consists of the episperm and collapsed adjacent layers removed from the seeds of Plantago ovata Forssk (Plantago ispaghula Roxb.).
It can be thought of as a factory that builds a protein from a set of genetic instructions.
Lupus anticoagulant neutralization test is a confirmatory test that detects antibodies K777 against factors that prevent blood clotting.
Four or more copies of the short arm of chromosome 12 instead of the normal two.
Fennel allergy in children may result in symptoms of food allergy and/or atopic dermatitis.
The cells are bounded by a plasma membrane and lack a true cell wall.
Exposure to DDE is mostly by ingesting contaminated food bought in countries where the use of DDT is still prevalent.
Rb is a soft, silvery-white metallic element of the alkali metal group.
Cystinuria is a rare metabolic disorder in which the transport of specific amino acids (cystine, lysine, arginine, and ornithine) in the intestines and kidneys is impaired.
CD14, 16, 24, and 59 are GPI-linked proteins that are used as markers for the presence of GPI, as is fluorescent aerolysin (FLAER), which binds to GPI-APs.
o,p'- DDE is under investigation as a possible treatment for metastatic adrenal carcinoma.
Zika virus (ZIKV) is a flavivirus transmitted primarily by the Aedes mosquito which was first identified in a sentinel monkey in the Zika forest in Uganda in 1947.
At 25 degrees Celsius, H. capsulatum is in its filamentous or mycelial form, and at 37 degrees Celsius it is in its yeast form.
At room temperature, cyclosarin is a colorless liquid whose odor has been variously described as sweet and musty, or resembling peaches or shellac.
Abnormal accumulation of promyelocytes is seen in acute promyelocytic leukemia (APL), a cancer of the blood and bone marrow.
Mutations in this gene cause the type I form of multiple exostoses.
Calcium, the most abundant mineral in the body, is found in foods, available as a dietary supplement, and present in some medicines (such as antacids).
Ficus is a genus of about 850 species of woody trees, shrubs, vines, epiphytes, and hemiepiphyte in the family Moraceae.
Ninety-five percent of fatal cases worldwide are due to the Amanitin phalloides syndrome.
Genetic testing is performed to identifying patients who are poor, intermediate, extensive, or ultrarapid metabolizers of drugs metabolized by CYP1A2.
Presence of anti-GD2-like antibodies was associated with significantly more neurological disability compared to patients with MS that did not have anti-GD2-like antibodies.
It is more readily absorbed than TETRACYCLINE and can be used in lower doses.
Allergens for serum IgE testing are extracted from ordinary fermented Black tea from Ceylon or a blend of several Black teas derived from various locales, including India, Sri Lanka, Kenya, Malawi and China.
Subtype B is the dominant form in Europe, the Americas, Japan, Thailand, and Australia.
Our bodies do not make essential fatty acids, so you can only get them from food.
Springer, Vienna) LW^a has much higher prevalence than LW^b in most populations.
Phyllostachys edulis is a bamboo species belonging to the genus Phyllostachys.
This gene is similar to other KCNN family potassium channel genes, but it differs enough to possibly be considered as part of a new subfamily.
The S282T mutation has been identified as the common variant to pose resistance to sofosbuvir, however, this variant is not generally found in untreated patients with HCV.
A food, which may result in allergy symptoms in sensitised individuals.
Hexosaminidase B is the beta subunit of the lysosomal enzyme beta-hexosaminidase that, together with the cofactor GM2 activator protein, catalyzes the degradation of the ganglioside GM2, and other molecules containing terminal N-acetyl hexosamines.
LDH fractions 4 and 5 are associated with hepatic and skeletal muscle origin.
It is found from Delaware to south Florida, into Texas and Oklahoma, and north to Indiana.
Amongst its uses it can be used as a solvent for dissolving polymers, most notably the conducting polymer polyaniline.
This has been particularly noted in premature infants and children with biliary atresia or cystic fibrosis (chronic intrahepatic cholestasis).
The patient was on oxygen upon arrival to the hospital.
Quazepam (marketed under brand names Doral, Dormalin) is a drug which is a benzodiazepine derivative.
Mutations in this gene have been linked with Li-Fraumeni syndrome, a highly penetrant familial cancer phenotype usually associated with inherited mutations in TP53.
AA is located in human fat, liver, brain, and glandular organs and is a mediator of inflammation.
Types of tissue in teeth In Humans Enamel is a hard outer layer consisting primarily of calcium and phosphate.
The protein encoded by this gene is a bifunctional enzyme that initiates and regulates the biosynthesis of N-acetylneuraminic acid (NeuAc), a precursor of sialic acids.
The CBD qualities of anti-proliferative, anti-angiogenic and pro-apoptotic leads to the inhibition of cancer cell invasiveness and metastasis.
The poroconidia are curved slightly to distinctly, transversely septate, with an expanded third cell from the pore end of the conidium.
Probenecid has also been used to treat patients with renal impairment, and, because it reduces the renal tubular excretion of other drugs, has been used as an adjunct to antibacterial therapy.
This gene was initially identified as a locus (RP26) associated with an autosomal recessive form of retinitis pigmentosa (arRP) disease.
It also appears to increase the efficacy of standard antimicrobial agents (even ones to which the strain in question is resistant) in treating XDR-tuberculosis (XDR-TB) via inhibiting bacterial efflux pumps.(Wikipedia)
Genotype 3, constitutes 10% of HCV infections in the United States and Canada.
It is applied to pine forests, field crops that include corn, cotton, coffee, and ornamental, herbaceous plants, and bulbs.
The COL2A1 gene (collagen, type II, alpha 1) is located on chromosome 12q13.11.
When the repeat expansion is passed on from affected parent to offspring, the mutated allele can either expansion or contract within the disease range.
It is a 139-kDa glycoprotein expressed by the liver and secreted into the blood.
Depending upon a person's ABO blood type, the H antigen is converted into either the A antigen, B antigen, or both.
Creatine kinase MB is the quantitation of the specific cardiac protein CKMB that is used in diagnosing myocardial infarction.
Newer technologies have emerged including microarray, which includes both array comparative genomic hybridization (arrCGH) and SNP-based microarray, fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) and polymerase chain reaction (PCR).
Cabot rings are thin, red-violet staining, threadlike strands in the shape of a loop or figure-8 that are found on rare occasions in erythrocytes.
Travelers or residents of these regions who are bitten by ticks are at increased risk for Lyme disease caused by a Borrelia species.
A humoral factor that stimulates the production of thrombocytes (blood platelets).
Alfentanil is a short-acting opioid anesthetic and analgesic derivative of FENTANYL.
It is pharmacologically similar to ASPIRIN, but causes less gastrointestinal bleeding.
Chronic granulomatous disease (CGD) is an x-linked or autosomal-recessive disorder where NADPH oxidase is improperly assembled which leads to an inadequate oxidative burst response and increased susceptibility to bacterial and fungal infections.
The encoded protein functions as a chloride channel and controls the regulation of other transport pathways.
AZM is a dangerous neurotoxin derived from nerve agents used during World War II.
The fungus is usually referred to by its anamorph (asexual form) name, because the sexual phase is rarely observed.
However its increased ratio (5alpha-Tetrahydrocortisol + Tetrahydrocortisol) over Tetrahydrocortisone in urine is the biochemical marker for the syndrome of apparent mineralocorticoid excess (AME).
In DNA, thymine(T) binds to adenine (A) via two hydrogen bonds, thus stabilizing the nucleic acid structures.
The first orally active progestin, ethisterone (pregneninolone, 17α-ethynyltestosterone), the 17α-ethynyl analog of testosterone, was synthesized in 1938 by Hans Herloff Inhoffen, Willy Logemann, Walter Hohlweg, and Arthur Serini at Schering AG in Berlin and marketed in Germany in 1939 as Proluton C and by Schering in the U.S. in 1945 as Pranone.
Gossypol is a dimeric sesquiterpene isolated from the seed, roots, leaves and stem of the cotton plant (Gossypium sp.).
TTR is decreased in hepatocellular synthesis caused by acute liver damage, or dietary protein deficiency, and because of its short half life (approximately 2 days) is used as a surrogate marker of nutritional status.
It is often called the "molecular unit of currency" of intracellular energy transfer.
One molecule of ATP contains three phosphate groups, and it is produced by ATP synthase from inorganic phosphate and adenosine diphosphate (ADP) or adenosine monophosphate (AMP).
Lovage (Levisticum officinale) is a plant, the leaves and seeds or fruit of which are used to flavor food, especially in South European cuisine.
Euroglyphus maynei is prevalent in humid geographical areas throughout the world.
DXA is the standard for measuring bone mineral density (BMD), or the amount of bone matter per square centimeter of bone.
A radioactive iodine uptake scan measures the amount of radioactive iodine taken up by the thyroid gland over a certain period of time.
Small, abnormal spherical red blood cells with more than the normal amount of hemoglobin.
Klebsiella aerogenes, formerly known as Enterobacter aerogenes, is a Gram-negative bacterium in the family Enterobacteriaceae.
Detection of antibodies directed against platelet glycoprotein IV and other glycoprotein-specific platelet antibodies (GP IIb/IIIa, GP Ib/IX, GP Ia/IIa) can help differentiate between immune and nonimmune disorders in patients with thrombocytopenia.
The three most common dust mites include Dermatophagoides farinae, Dermatophagoides pteronyssinus and Euroglyphus maynei.
The COL3A1 gene (collagen, type III, alpha 1) is located on chromosome 2q31.
The heavy chain contains two fibronectin-type domains, two epidermal growth factor (EGF)-like domains, a kringle domain and a proline-rich domain, whereas the light chain contains only a catalytic domain.
Enzyme and fluorescent-based assays, which were preceded by the RAST test (Radio-AllergoSorbent Test), are performed to detect allergen-specific IgE in the patient's serum.
Cathepsin K is also expressed in a significant fraction of human breast cancers, where it could contribute to tumor invasiveness.
It can be inactivated (iC3b) or cleaved by various proteases to yield fragments such as COMPLEMENT C3C; COMPLEMENT C3D; C3e; C3f; and C3g.
Taxodium distichum (Baldcypress, Bald Cypress, or Swamp Cypress) is a species of conifer native to the southeastern United States.
Kratom was used for centuries in parts of the world, including Southeast Asia where the tree is native, for pain management, and more recently has been used for opioid withdrawal.
Transmissible spongiform encephalopathies (TSEs), also known as prion diseases, are a group of progressive conditions (encephalopathies) that affect the brain and nervous system of many animals, including humans.
Yet, trust is a nebulous construct based on emotions, knowledge, beliefs, and relationships.
It is expressed in embryonal carcinoma but not in seminoma and is thus is a useful marker in distinguishing between these germ cell tumors.
Two alternatively spliced variants encoding distinct isoforms have been described.
The majority of enzymes which depend on pyridoxal phosphate are associated with pathways involving amino acids, such as amino group transfer, decarboxylation and other important biochemical processes.
This cytokine can block NF-κB activity, and is involved in the regulation of the JAK-STAT signaling pathway.
C. botulinum and the associated toxins are on the Department of Health and Human Services and the USDA list of Select Agents that could be used as weapons of bioterrorism.
Like cortisol, cortisone has an important circadian rhythm where amounts peak in the morning and reach the lowest level late at night.
It is used as an industrial solvent in paints, varnishes, lacquer thinners, gasoline, etc.
Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been described.
The HRAS gene (Harvey rat sarcoma viral oncogene homolog) is located on chromosome 11p15.5.
As a seedborne fungus, S. botryosum causes black mold rot on tomatoes (especially in Israel), wheat and barley.
The NADH-dependent enzyme methemoglobin reductase (AKA diaphorase I) is responsible for converting methemoglobin back to hemoglobin.
Defects in this gene are a cause of infantile neuronal ceroid lipofuscinosis 1 (CLN1, or INCL) and neuronal ceroid lipofuscinosis 4 (CLN4).
The proteins of the body are continually being broken down and re-synthesized in a process called protein turnover.
The presence of H or K has not been closely associated with resistance or susceptibility and are therefore assumed to be susceptible and equivalent to Q for purposes of the eradication program.
Testing for IgE antibodies may be used to help diagnose an allergic disease or the cause of an anaphylactic episode in a patient.
The cytoplasm is blue in an H&E stain, indicating that it is basophilic.
The virus causes the disease Marburg Hemorrhagic Fever (MHF), also referred to as Marburg Virus Disease, and previously also known as green monkey disease due to its primate origin.
Exposure to DU may also occur in military personnel from retention internal shrapnel that contains DU or exposure to dust generated from ammunition impact.
Mutation of the FMR1 gene which results in mental retardation mostly involve expansion of CGG repeats in the 5' untranslated region.
Langer-Giedion syndrome, also known as trichorhinophalangeal syndrome type II (TRPS2), involves the loss of functional copies of both the TRPS1 and EXT1 genes.
It is composed of three subunits, alpha, beta, and gamma, which are bound to each other by disulfide bonds into a cross-shaped molecule.
Caution should be used when applying pressure half-time measurements in patients with prosthetic mitral valves, mitral commissurotomy, tachycardia, arrhythmias, and aortic insufficiency.
IL-6 is an interleukin that acts as both a pro-inflammatory and anti-inflammatory cytokine.
It also acts as a dopamine reuptake inhibitor and has stimulant effects in mice.
Bovine Müllerian inhibiting substance (BMIS) is a dimeric glycoprotein that belongs to the transforming growth factor beta (TGF-B) family of growth and differentiation factors.
P. falciparum is the most prevalent species and responsible for the most morbidity and mortality worldwide.
They form spores that allow them to survive in a dormant state until exposed to conditions that can support their growth.
This virus causes Kaposi's sarcoma, a cancer commonly occurring in AIDS patients, as well as primary effusion lymphoma and some types of multicentric Castleman's disease.
Unlike many fellow coagulase-negative staphylococci, it is susceptible to a wide range of antimicrobials .
P53 halts the growth arrest function of the cell cycle progress which can activate transcription of proteins that repair DNA.
The risk evaluation and mitigation strategies (REMS) Summary is an overview of what stakeholders who participate in REMS with ETASU, such as healthcare providers, patients, and distributors, are required to do under the REMS' Elements to Assure Safe Use and Implementation System.
S. intermedius is part of the normal flora, but has been isolated from patients with periodontitis and fatal purulent infections, particularly brain and liver abscesses.
Progesterone should not be confused with progestins, which are synthetically produced progestogens.
A furancarbonitrile that is one of the SEROTONIN UPTAKE INHIBITORS used as an antidepressant.
Litchi may induce symptoms of food allergy, including anaphylaxis, in sensitised individuals.
The anion of mevalonic acid, the predominant form in biological media, is known as mevalonate.
Members of the Bacillus cereus group are catalase-positive, aerobic (or facultatively anaerobic), spore-forming gram-positive bacilli.
Doxepin is also used for the treatment of sleep maintenance, and the tradename of doxepin for this indication is Silenor.
These forms of the disease are more common in people who are on corticosteroids (prednisone for example) or other immunosuppressive therapies.
Common Silver Birch is native and common in most of Europe, northwest Africa and western Siberia, but absent in the southernmost parts of Europe.
This gene encodes a member of the beta chemokine receptor family, which is predicted to be a seven transmembrane protein similar to G protein-coupled receptors.
In solution, it has anti-infective properties and is used topically.
A species of gram-negative bacteria that causes ehrlichiosis in humans.
This gene encodes the human homolog of the mouse p (pink-eyed dilution) gene.
Polymorphic DNA markers are used to determine if twins (triples, etc.) are monozygotic (identical) or dizygotic (fraternal).
Symptoms of EMCV infection include myocarditis, diabetes, reproductive and neurological disorders.
Avibactam is a synthetic non-beta-lactamase inhibitor that is used to treat class A serine carbapenemases including Klebsiella pneumoniae carbapenemase (KPC).
Percent premutation is one of the tests ordered after more conventional Fragile X testing is positive.
It has been introduced and grows well in cool climates of the U.S., but is more common in Europe.
The assay can be done on whole blood (plasma or cell-based) and bone marrow.
The activity of pseudocholinesterase in the serum is low and its substrate behavior is atypical.
HE4 has a size of 20-25 kDa with a 13 KDa (approx.)
It is also one of the degradation products of threonine.
HCM is most commonly caused by mutations in one of the genes (e.g. MYH7, MYBPC3, TNNT2, TNNI3, TPM1) that encode different components of the sarcomere.
Malonylcarnitine has also been found to accumulate in some newborns with medium-chain acyl-CoA dehydrogenase deficiency, ,, .
There are three main pairs of salivary glands: the parotid, the submandibular and the sublingual glands.
UMP controls the activity of carbamoyl phosphate synthetase and aspartate transcarbamoylase in plants, while UDP and UTP requlate CPSase II activity in animals.
HPV type 11 can cause benign or low-grade cervical cell abnormalities, genital warts and laryngeal papillomas.
The homotetramer enzyme catalyzes the initial step of the mitochondrial fatty acid beta-oxidation pathway.
Many of the malformations in SLOS and desmosterolosis are consistent with impaired hedgehog function.
The interRAI Community Health Assessment (interRAI CHA) instrument and its accompanying supplements comprise a robust assessment system.
Diethylpropion is a sympathomimetic amine (similar to amphetamine) that acts as an appetite suppressant and is used to treat obesity.
The treatment for this stage involves both chemotherapy and radiation therapy.
During the procedure, baseline ACTH measurements are followed by administration of 1 ug/kg of CRH, after which ACTH is measured again at timed intervals.
Biotin is attached to the carboxylases through an amino acid called lysine, forming a complex called biocytin.
The clinical sensitivity and specificity of f254 Plaice was reported to be 86% and 94% respectively (4).
Humans acquire infections most often by consumption of undercooked meat containing tissue cysts or food contaminated by cat feces.
Difenacoum is sold as blue-green pellets intended to be ingested by pests such as rats and mice.
DOB is generally taken orally and toxicity is not fully known, although high doses may cause serious vasoconstriction of the extremities.
Aneuploidy is an abnormal number of chromosomes, and is a type of chromosome abnormality.
Streptococcus pneumoniae are gram-positive cocci that are nonmotile and nonsporulating and usually require complex culture media.
The Phlebovirus genus is divided into two groups, the sandfly fever virus group and the Uukuniemi-like virus group.
Niacin is essential for the metabolism of carbohydrates and fats.
Mountain juniper pollen causes asthma, hayfever and allergic conjunctivitis, in particular during winter months.
It is measured by plethysmography during normal breathing (i.e., tidal breathing), does not require special maneuvers, and is independent of height and sex, so it is commonly used in pediatrics and can be used for children as young as 2.
The protein is a member of the Polycomb group of proteins, which are necessary for the maintenance of stable repression of homeotic and other loci.
Inspiratory capacity (IC) is the sum of IRV and TV
Due to its broad host range and efficient replication, it has also been developed as a vector for genes encoding vaccines and anti-cancer agents, and as a tool in gene therapy.
The sodium salt of pyroglutamic acid - known either as sodium pyroglutamate or sodium pidolate - is used on the skin to retain moisture.
It is ubiquitous in the environment, an important foodborne pathogen, and of concern to the food industry especially unpasteurized dairy.
Index values range from 0 to 100, 100 reflecting the awake state and 0 reflecting no measurable cortical activity.
This is thought to be caused by an expanded, unstable trinucleotide repeat in the huntingtin gene, which translates as a polyglutamine repeat in the protein product.
The antibiotic is very soluble in water and is acid-labile.
Semi-synthetic derivative of penicillin that functions as an orally active broad-spectrum antibiotic.
This gene encodes the third discovered human homologue of the Drosophilia melanogaster type I membrane protein notch.
Its effectiveness is enhanced when it is administered in combination with cilastatin, a renal dipeptidase inhibitor.
The major source of dietary vitamin A is in the form of provitamin A carotenoids, which are found in vegetables, fruits and grains, and about one-third is consumed as preformed vitamin A, which is found in dairy and meat products.
Alternative splicing of downstream exons is also observed, which results in different forms of the stimulatory G-protein alpha subunit, a key element of the classical signal transduction pathway linking receptor-ligand interactions with the activation of adenylyl cyclase and a variety of cellular reponses.
Cancer antigen 15-3 (CA 15-3) is a mucin molecule and blood tumor marker used to gauge the response to treatment of invasive breast cancer.
Based on sequence similarity, this gene is similar to one of these subfamilies, namely the Shaw subfamily.
Interleukin 1b increases accumulation of cell-associated and extracellular arachadonic acid, and induces release of Interleukin 6.
Patau syndrome is associated with severe cognitive delay, various forms of congenital heart disease, brain or spinal cord abnormalities, hypotonia, cleft lip and/or palate, and poorly developed eyes.
The related turkey virus is known as Herpes virus of Turkey, or HVT.
Allergies to rough pigweed are most common between June and September but are weather dependant.
Isoniazid (also called isonicotinyl hydrazine or isonicotinic acid hydrazide) is often abbreviated INH.
Gentisic acid is also a byproduct of tyrosine and benzoate metabolism.
The reactive metabolite of acetaminophen, N-acetyl-p-benzoquinone imine (NAPQI), is detoxified by glutathione at therapeutic doses.
After the immature, double-layered virus is assembled in the host cell cytoplasm, they bud across the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) and acquire a temporary membrane that has on its surface the ER resident viral glycoproteins NSP4, VP4 and VP7.
Found on all functional T-cells; Absent on normal NK cells Associated with mature T-cell neoplasms.
The terms alternariosis and alternariatoxicosis are used for disorders in humans and animals caused by a fungus in this genus.
Tests that measure intact hemoglobin are sensitive only to lesions in the lower intestine since hemoglobin is easily broken down and any hemoglobin originating in the upper gastrointestinal tract is unlikely to be intact by the time it reaches the lower intestine.
An enzyme that catalyzes the conversion of urea and water to carbon dioxide and ammonia. .
Chicken meat contains about two to three times as much polyunsaturated fat than most types of red meat when measured as weight percentage.
In rare cases, symptoms of this disorder first appear during adulthood.
Muromonab-CD3 (trade name Orthoclone OKT3) is an immunosuppressant drug given to reduce acute rejection in patients with organ transplants.
It is spread through the fecal-oral route usually by drinking water contaminated with oocyst laden feces
Translocations of the immunoglobulin heavy chain (IgH) gene at 14q32 are routinely present in patients with B lymphoid malignancies and is one of the most common mutations in patients with multiple myeloma (MM).
One such phytosterol complex, isolated from vegetable oil, is cholestatin, composed of campesterol, stigmasterol, and brassicasterol, and is marketed as a dietary supplement.
Recently, more cases are being reported from states in the mid-Atlantic (West Virginia, Virginia and North Carolina) and southeastern (Alabama and Mississippi) regions of the country.
The POL3RA protein plays a key role in sensing and reducing infection by intracellular bacteria and DNA viruses.
A letter of the size on the 20/40 line of an eye chart would be able to be seen by a patient with normal (20/20) vision at a testing distance of 40 feet, but for a patient with reduced vision (e.g. 20/40) the letter would need to be moved closer (to 20 feet) in order to be seen.
The 2006 United States E. coli outbreak was linked to a large quantity of spinach contaminated with this strain.
In the developing nervous system AKT is a critical mediator of growth factor-induced neuronal survival.
It is the chemical responsible for the brown color of human fecal materia.
Prostaglandin F2a causes accumulation of water and electrolytes in the lumen of the gut by stimulating their secretion.
The enlarged cell eludes detection by natural killer (NK) cells by encoding UL16.
It has the molecular formula C4 H8 O2 and a boiling point of 101 °C.
Mutations in this gene are associated with autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease type 2.
It is wind-pollinated, releasing millions of pollen grains into the air.
It has been used in the treatment of several disorders including asthma, heart failure, rhinitis, and urinary incontinence, and for its central nervous system stimulatory effects in the treatment of narcolepsy and depression.
Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
A greenish-yellow, diatomic gas that is a member of the halogen family of elements.
In chemistry, especially biochemistry, a fatty acid is a carboxylic acid often with a long unbranched aliphatic tail (chain), which is either saturated or unsaturated.
Resistance to the high concentration means that the organism will be resistant when combined with a beta-lactam antibiotic.
The mechanism behind phytosterols and the lowering of cholesterol occurs as follows : the incorporation of cholesterol into micelles in the gastrointestinal tract is inhibited, decreasing the overall amount of cholesterol absorbed.
Mesoridazine was withdrawn from the United States market in 2004 due to dangerous side effects, namely irregular heart beat and QT-prolongation of the electrocardiogram.
The protease activity of the exfoliative toxins causes peeling of the skin observed with SSSS.
Campylobacter is identified in stool, body tissue, and fluid cultures.
Maprotiline (drug class tetracyclic antidepressants) is used to treat depression, bipolar disorder, and anxiety.
Treponemal infections exhibit diverse clinical manifestations which are characterized by distinct clinical stages.
This gene encodes a member of the class-I pyridine nucleotide-disulfide oxidoreductase family.
Most infections are asymptomatic, but are increased among immunocompromised patients.
Mutations in this gene are associated with Ehlers-Danlos syndrome types IV, and with aortic and arterial aneurysms.
Dwell time is the length of time the peritoneal dialysis solution stays in the peritoneal cavity before it is drained.
However, the encoded protein is also expressed in a significant fraction of human breast cancers, where it could contribute to tumor invasiveness.
Adults, however, are able to synthesize arginine in the urea cycle.
Tricyclic antidepressants (TCA) are a class of drugs first used in the 1950s.
In 1900, Landsteiner observed that the red cells of some individuals were agglutinated by the serum of others and his detailed report a year later heralded the discovery of the first human blood groups.
PB-22 3-carboxyindole is a metabolite of PB-22 hydroxyquinolines and PB-22 (QUPIC or 1-pentyl-1H-indole-3-carboxylic acid 8-quinolinyl ester), a synthetic cannabinoid that binds to the cannabinoid CB1 and CB2 receptors.
They are mainly used for social purposes but are also used for their stimulant properties.
V. cholerae and other species of the genus Vibrio belong to the gamma subdivision of the Proteobacteria.
Many bacteria use two magnesium ions in place of the lysine.
It was initially identified as a vasoconstrictor substance in blood serum hence serotonin, a serum agent affecting vascular tone.
The leaves are compound and contain 5-11 leaflets, with finely or sharply toothed margins, 4-13 cm long and 2-6 cm wide.
Inhalation of dust causes asbestosis and later lung and gastrointestinal neoplasms.
A recent study showed that this vaccination method is still effective after 20 years and testing for the MLV-modified PRRS induced antibody continues to be a relevant form of disease surveillance.
The ITGB3 gene (integrin, beta 3 (platelet glycoprotein IIIa, antigen CD61)) is located on chromosome 17q21.32.
Elevated values are consistent with an acute inflammatory process such as a bacterial infection or rheumatic disease.
A fasting plasma 5HIAA correlates to a urine 5HIAA and other relevant biomarkers.
Viruses in many untreated patients exhibit a shift in co-receptor tropism from CCR5 usage to either CXCR4 (X4 tropism) or both (D/M-tropic, which stands for dual or mixed), which is associated with a more rapid decline in CD4 T-cell counts.
3-Methylhistidine is an amino acid occurring in myofibrillar proteins and important in the synthesis of carnosine.
Defensins are 2-6 kDa, cationic, microbicidal peptides active against many Gram-negative and Gram-positive bacteria, fungi, and enveloped viruses, containing three pairs of intramolecular disulfide bonds.
Decreased plasma adiponectin levels are associated with INSULIN RESISTANCE; TYPE 2 DIABETES MELLITUS; OBESITY; and ATHEROSCLEROSIS.
Latex that is used industrially is obtained from the Hevea brasiliensis rubber tree.
Mode of action:Its use as an antibiotic is particularly in Lyme disease, acne and bronchitis.
Sensitization to BSA may develop following natural contact (eating meat, drinking cow's milk, exposure to animal epithelia, dander or saliva containing serum albumin cross-reactive with BSA)
Primary infection results in a fever that may exceed 40 degrees Celsius and last for 3-5 days.
Derivative of noroxymorphone that is the N-cyclopropylmethyl congener of NALOXONE.
The genes are named with the prefix "bla", which stands for "beta-lactam", followed by the enzyme, for example, blaCTX-M-1.
Reticulated platelets (RPs) are the youngest circulating platelets and have been shown to reflect thrombopoietic activity in humans.
M hyopneumoniae eludes the immune system of the pig at the gene level by switching what proteins emerge on its cell surface.
Dolutegravir is an experimental new drug under investigation for the treatment of HIV infection.
HPV type 33 has been associated with low grade cervical abnormalities, cancer precursors, and anogenital cancers.
The encoded protein is a plasma integral membrane protein which functions both as an organic cation transporter and as a sodium-dependent high affinity carnitine transporter.
Clarithromycin is available under several brand names, for example Biaxin, Klacid, and Claripen.
The ticks which carry the disease occur in Africa and the Caribbean, and feed on a wide variety of vertebrate hosts.
A hypnotic and sedative used in the treatment of insomnia.
Patients with low potassium or magnesium levels should not use sotalol since these conditions can create higher risk for abnormal heart rhythms with the use of this medication.
The TSC1 gene (tuberous sclerosis 1) is located on chromosome 9q34.
Anti-K can cause a severe hemolytic transfusion reaction and severe fetal anemia.
Both types were discovered in their local regions around 1990 but they now share worldwide distributions.
The presence of AMA in the blood or serum is associated with primary biliary cirrhosis (PBC), which causes scarring of liver tissue confined primarily to the bile duct drainage system.
Smith extractable nuclear D (Sm-D) antibodies target Sm-D proteins, which are among the 7 Sm proteins (B/B', D1, D2, D3, E, F, G) that constitute the common core of U1, U2, U4 and U5 small nuclear ribonucleoprotein (snRNP).
It releases dopamine by a similar mechanism to amphetamines, but is ten times less potent than dexamphetamine at producing this effect.
Propyphenazone is a derivative of phenazone with similar analgesic and antipyretic effects.
Calbindin-D28k is an intracellular protein with high affinity for calcium.
It can be used in the treatment of asthma, hay fever, rhinitus and urticaria, but is now less common as it has been replaced by newer antihistamines.
The BPO (benzylpenicilloyl)-group is a major determinant of allergies against Benzylpenicillin and related antibiotics.
The technical grade of this substance may contain polychlorinated dibenzodioxins (PCDDs), polychlorinated dibenzofurans (PCDFs), and other contaminants.
Both the acid and its sodium salt are used in the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis and other rheumatic or musculoskeletal disorders, dysmenorrhea, and acute gout.
The activity level of Complex II+III is measured as part of mitochondrial and metabolic testing to assess neurodegenerative diseases.
Most cases of Reye syndrome are associated with the use of aspirin during these viral infections.
Chromosome 9p21 g.22125503G>C (rs1333049) is associated with increased risk of atherosclerosis and myocardial infarction.
It is a colorless, nearly odorless liquid that boils at about room temperature.
Cholesterol is a waxy, fat-like substance that is found in all cells of the body.
Glycopeptide antibiotic complex from Actinoplanes teichomyceticus active against gram-positive bacteria.
All cases to date have been linked to countries in and near the Arabian Peninsula.
Domperidone (trade names Motilium, Motillium, Motinorm and Costi) is an antidopaminergic drug and used orally, rectally or intravenously, generally to suppress nausea and vomiting.
Garenoxacin (INN) is a quinolone antibiotic for the treatment of gram-positive and gram-negative bacterial infections.
It is considered a regularly consumed beverage in the United States - as popular as soft drinks and even water - and because of the volume consumed, it is here that coffee is highest in demand.
The hepatitis B surface antigen (HBsAg) is most frequently used to screen for the presence of this infection.
Symptoms include; stomachache, bloating, and heartburn, intermittent episodes of diarrhea and constipation, nausea and loss of appetite, dry cough, throat irritation, an itchy, red rash that occurs where the worm entered the skin, and recurrent raised red rash typically along the thighs and buttocks.
Its ability to polymerize and dry means it can be - and is - used as a binder for oil paints.
HIV infection decreases the number of CD3+ CD4+ lymphocytes (also called CD4 T cells or T4 helper cells) while increasing (momentarily) the numbers of CD3+CD8+ lymphocytes (called CD8 T lymphocytes or cytotoxic T cells).
Botrytis cinerea is called the grey mold, as it covers the decayed tissues with conidiophores.
If the patient produces methane then the parts per million for the methane typically rises 12 ppm over the lowest preceding value to be considered positive.
The influenza A and B virus genomes comprise eight segmented viral RNAs (vRNAs).
The protein encoded by the BCL6 gene arrangements is a zinc finger transcription factor and contains an N-terminal POZ domain.
Chronic ingestion, however, has caused serious health problems at doses far less than the lethal dose.
It is also raised in patients with cystic fibrosis with the complication of ABPA.
In addition, the mature peptide has antimicrobial activity against some bacteria and fungi, including S. pneumoniae and C. albicans.
A 'Yes' answer indicates that there are no contractual or other restrictions that would prevent an individual from requesting any chart for this member.
ATPase, Na+/K+ transporting, alpha 2 (+) polypeptide, also known as ATP1A2, is a protein which in humans is encoded by the ATP1A2 gene.
Iodine (I2) is the form found in nature and is an essential nutrient in the diet.
As a result, excessive levels of long-chain fatty acids may build up in tissues, damaging the liver, heart, and brain.
Although the clinical features of PBD patients vary, cells from all PBD patients exhibit a defect in the import of one or more classes of peroxisomal matrix proteins into the organelle.
The main toxic actions are caused by amanitins, which occur in the extremely poisonous toadstools such as Amanita phalloides (death cap), Amanita verna (white death cap), Amanita virosa (destroying angel) and other Amanita species.
LH measurement is used in evaluating the normalcy of hypothalamic-pituitary-gonadal axis.
It is used to treat arrhythmias within the heart, or seriously irregular heartbeats.
PCP may be a powder, tablet, liquid, spray or capsule, and it may be swallowed, smoked, sniffed, or injected.
Both the organism and disease are named for Dr. George Whipple.
This gene encodes the alpha subunit of the catalytic core.
Lima bean may induce symptoms of food allergy in sensitised individuals, although this is uncommon.
Specifically, the IVS4+4 A to T mutation is the only Fanconi anemia complementation group C mutation reported in the Ashkenazi Jewish population.
Cytochrome-b5 reductase (also known as methemoglobin reductase) is a NADH-dependent enzyme that converts methemoglobin to hemoglobin.
Transmission is primarily through biting flies, such as the horse-fly and deer-fly.
PHEV enters nuclei of the medulla oblongata and then moves to the peripheral nervous system where it spreads to the brain and brain stem.
The pseudocast is not formed from the secretions of Tamm-Horsfall mucoprotein by the renal tubules like true hyaline casts are.
Simeprevir is indicated for treating chronic HCV infection as a part of a triple antiviral treatment regimen along with two other drugs, PEG-IFN and RBV.
When the word butadiene is used, most of the time it refers to 1,3-butadiene.
The haddock or offshore hake is a marine fish distributed on both sides of the North Atlantic.
Recombinant Prunus avium (rPru av) 3 is a lipid transfer protein (LTP) isolated from cherry.
Yeast derived beta glucans are notable for their immunomodulatory function.
The "L" allele is associated with normal levels of serotonin transporter, and the "S" allele is associated with reduced serotonin transporter levels and increased risk for depression.
Mutations in this gene have been associated with hemolytic-uremic syndrome (HUS) and chronic hypocomplementemic nephropathy.
Cell-free DNA (cfDNA) in maternal plasma comes from both fetal and maternal sources, and various platforms have been developed using cfDNA to determine fetal risk.
Patients with ectopic ACTH secretion will not have the same increase between pre- and post-.
Elevated serum levels of TNFRSF1A are associated with schizophrenia, bipolar disorder, cognitive impairment and dementia.
The following information is included in the action plan: 1.
This test is used to diagnose or exclude primary and secondary adrenal insufficiency, Addison's disease and related conditions.
When used as a refrigerant or a propellant, isobutane is also known as R-600a.
Its presence in plasma is used as a test to differentiate between hemorrhagic and edematous pancreatitis.
The WONCA version has been developed as the international standard for classifying the functional status of adult patients in primary care settings.
It accounts for 1.1% of unselected patients with venous thrombosis and up to 5% of patients younger than 70 years with thrombosis.
The main distinguishing features of Am cells are: no reaction with anti-A or anti-A,B in routine testing, and anti-A1 is not present in the serum.
The protein encoded by this gene includes a polymorphic polyglutamine tract in the N-terminal domain.
It may form in excess in the lens of the eye in GALACTOSEMIAS, a deficiency of GALACTOKINASE.
Influenza hemagglutinin (HA) is a type of hemagglutinin found on the surface of the influenza viruses.
Dander is the "end product" and by far the most common source of Dog allergens and contains the highest proportion of dog specific allergens.
Examples of these alleles and associated SNPs include CYP3A4*6 (an A17776 insertion), CYP3A4*17 (15615T>C) and CYP3A4*22 (15389C>T).
Coronaviruses, named for the crown-like spikes on their surface, are common viruses that cause mild to moderate upper-respiratory tract illnesses of a short duration.
O-Xylene is largely used in the production of phthalic anhydride, and is generally extracted by distillation from a mixed xylene stream in a plant primarily designed for p-xylene production.
Ceftazidime is a broad-spectrum antibiotic used frequently to treat Pseudomonas and other Gram-negative infections.
CD22 is a sugar binding transmembrane protein, which specifically binds sialic acid with an immunoglobulin (Ig) domain located at its N-terminus.
Zearalenone (ZEA), also known as F-2 mycotoxin, is a potent estrogenic metabolite produced by various Fusarium and Gibberella species.
The 2010 American Diabetes Association Standards of Medical Care in Diabetes added the A1c ≥ 48 mmol/mol (≥6.5%) as another criterion for the diagnosis of diabetes.
It's concentration also is an indication for the effectiveness of medication (cortisol suppletion) against this disease.
The biological value of a protein refers to how well and how quickly the body can actually use the protein.
Cyclophosphamide (the generic name for Endoxan, Cytoxan, Neosar, Procytox, Revimmune), also known as cytophosphane, is a nitrogen mustard alkylating agent, from the oxazophorines group.
The omega-6 polyunsaturated fatty acids are necessary nutrients that cannot be produced in the body.
Degranulation of mast cells releases large amounts of histamines, prostaglandins (including 2,3-BPG), leukotrienes, and tryptase.
3-MT can be further metabolized by the enzyme monoamine oxidase (MAO) to form homovanillic acid (HVA), which is then typically excreted in the urine.
This taxonomic complex includes species which cause a disease called Oriental sore which is a form of cutaneous leishmaniasis (LEISHMANIASIS, CUTANEOUS) of the Old World.
Schistocytes are often seen in patients with hemolytic anemia and they frequently result from mechanical heart valve prostheses.
Progesterone is a C-21 steroid hormone involved in the female menstrual cycle, pregnancy (supports gestation) and embryogenesis of humans and other species.
Occupational moth allergy has also been reported in bakers, in laboratory workers involved in gypsy moth research, and in workers in biological pest control factories engaged in the production of beneficial arthropods.
Nm can also be found in venereal discharges and blood.
Alkyl-dihydroxyacetonephosphate (alkyl-DHAP) synthase is involved in the biosynthesis of plasmalogens.
This gene encodes human lysozyme, whose natural substrate is the bacterial cell wall peptidoglycan (cleaving the betaglycosidic linkages between N-acetylmuramic acid and N-acetylglucosamine).
Vitamin B6 is a water-soluble vitamin that is naturally present in many foods, added to others, and available as a dietary supplement.
It is primarily assessed through Doppler echocardiography though more invasive cardiac catherization and provides a means of calculating the approximate mitral valve area and evaluating mitral valve stenosis regurgitation.
Defects in this gene are associated with idiopathic growth retardation and in the short stature phenotype of Turner syndrome patients.
Its most common compound, titanium dioxide, is used in white pigments.
One such internal its sequence is specific for C albicans, and detecting this gene sequence in a clinical specimen can help identify C albicans as the causative organism in a particular infection.
Gastrin is produced at high levels in Zollinger-Ellison syndrome, often by a gastrin-producing tumor (gastrinoma).
It works by acting on the heart muscle to improve the heart's rhythm.
In some cases, complement proteins are present but not functional, in which case a functional assay is used to detect the deficiency.
In premenopausal women the adrenal glands and ovaries each produce about half of the total androstendione (about 3 mgday).
PTPs are known to be signaling molecules that regulate a variety of cellular processes including cell growth, differentiation, mitosis, and oncogenic transformation.
The most common form is tetrasialotransferrin, with four sialic acid residues.
During dialysis, excess sodium and fluid is removed, with a consequent decrease in blood pressure.
Juniperus occidentalis (Western Juniper and Sierra Juniper) is a shrub or tree native to the western United States, growing in mountains at altitudes of 800-3,000 m (rarely down to 100 m).
Myristic acid is also commonly added co-translationally to the penultimate, nitrogen-terminus, glycine in receptor-associated kinases to confer the membrane localisation of the enzyme.
MAP survival during pasteurization is dependent on the D72C-value of the strains present and their concentration in milk.
Pregnenolone sulfate (PregS) is a steroid metabolite with multiple functions.
Substances that dissociate into two or more ions, to some extent, in water.
N,N-dimethylarginine (also known as asymmetrical dimethylarginine or ADMA) and N,N'-dimethylarginine (symmetrical dimethylarginine or SDMA) both inhibit cellular L-arginine uptake, and ADMA also competitively inhibits nitric oxide (NO) synthases.
Kallikreins (tissue and plasma kallikrein) are peptidases (enzymes that cleave peptide bonds in proteins), a subgroup of the serine protease family.
The antibiotic is used primarily for the treatment of primary and secondary skin disorders, nasal infections, and wound healing.
However, isoleucine present in nature exists in one enantiomeric form, (2 S ,3 S)-2-amino-3-methylpentanoic acid.
Initially, the outbreak was linked to a large seafood and animal market and thought to only be spread by animal to person contact.
Other names include twitch, quick grass, quitch grass, dog grass, and quackgrass.
Faropenem is an orally-active beta-lactam antibiotic belonging to the penem group.
Heparan sulfate is a derived disaccharide that accumulates in lysosomes, extracellular matrix, and body fluids of people with mucopolysaccharidoses (MPSs).
The hyperpolarization of the photoreceptor cells results in a decrease in the amount of neurotransmitter released, which subsequently leads to a depolarization of the post-synaptic bipolar cells.
In most cases, it is equivalent to ceftriaxone in terms of safety and efficacy.
Food allergen mix 15 (fx15, FP13) detects orange (F33), apple (F49), banana F92), and peach (F95) IgE antibodies.
Ceftriaxone sodium is marketed by Hoffman-La Roche under the trade name Rocephin.
The INR is not appropriate to evalulate hemostatic function in patients with liver disease, for screening for hereditary factor deficiencies or acquired vitamin K deficiencies, or for routine preoperative screening; this should be evaluated on the normal range in seconds.
MMP-9 is expressed by leukocytes in severely injured livers and in hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC).
Beta vulgaris produces sugar from its large, white, conical tap roots.
The MBL2 gene (mannose-binding lectin (protein C) 2, soluble) is located on chromosome 10q11.2.
Columnar epithelia are epithelial cells whose heights are at least four times their width.
Abnormal thrombocytes can be associated with May-Hegglin anomaly and myelodysplastic syndromes.
This gene encodes a mitochondrial protein that is associated with the matrix face of the mitochondrial inner membrane and is required for complex I assembly.
Other sources of Campylobacter include water, animals, and unpasteurized milk.
A member of the Apiaceae family, it is related to Caraway, Dill, Cumin, and Fennel.
Upon hydrolysis, they yield 1 mole of glycerol, 2 moles of fatty acid, 1 mole of inositol and 1,2, or 3 moles of phosphoric acids.
Such scores have been devised based on insulin and C-peptide measurements or lipid level patterns.
Drugs are also illicit substances that can lead to addiciton, habituation, or a marked changes in consciousness.
Functionally, fetal hemoglobin differs most from adult hemoglobin in that it is able to bind oxygen with greater affinity than the adult form, giving the developing fetus better access to oxygen from the mother's bloodstream.
The compound is a potent inhibitor of HIV replication, acting as a chain-terminator of viral DNA during reverse transcription.
Each of these HIV-2 strains, for which humans are probably dead-end hosts, is most closely related to SIVsmm strains from sooty mangabeys living in the same country where the human infection was found.
Rare, limited person-to-person spread of this virus has been identified in China, but there is no evidence of sustained person-to-person spread of H7N9.
When calculated using time-lapse microscopy (i.e., thrombodynamics or spatiotemporal clot analysis), if there is no spontaneous clotting, the growth velocity is calculated as the average growth velocity between 15-25 minutes after the beginning of clot growth and is called the stationary growth velocity.
A genus of gram-negative, facultatively anaerobic, rod-shaped bacteria that ferments sugar without gas production.
Lowered levels of ALP are less common than elevated levels and occurs in various conditions, including aplastic and pernicious anemias, chronic myelogenous leukemia, Wilson's disease, children with severe enteritis, and postmenopausal women on estrogen therapy for osteoporosis.
It is one of the chief constituents of natural gas and is formed in the decomposition of organic matter.
Purkinje cells are aligned like dominos stacked one in front of the other.
A rise in the number of infections with C krusei is associated with the spread of the human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) and the use of the antifungal triazole fluconazole.
It was released in 1992 by the pharmaceutical company GlaxoSmithKline and has since become one of the most prescribed antidepressants on the market due to its efficacy in treating depression as well as a spectrum of anxiety disorders ranging from panic attacks to phobias.
Occupational asthma from inhalation of Bay leaf allergen may occur.
Malarial infections caused by P. falciparum are the most likely to progress to severe, potentially fatal forms with central nervous system involvement (cerebral malaria), acute renal failure, severe anemia, or acute respiratory distress syndrome.
The Manilla clam, also referred to as littleneck clam or carpet shell, is a hard shell clam cultivated on a very large scale in, for example, Japan, and then frozen whole and exported widely.
Most BMPR1A gene mutations result in the production of an abnormally short, nonfunctional protein.
Scintigraphy and EEG are considered confirmatory tests for brain death, while clinical exam and 4-vessel cerebral angriography are considered diagnostic.
The dried fruits have been used for centuries for flavouring drinks, pastries, and candies.
The fetal risk of RDS can be estimated by measuring the amniotic fluid phospholipid concentrations.
Despite the ease of finding Reovirus in clinical specimens, their role in human disease or treatment is still uncertain.
Ethanolamine also refers to a class of antihistamines containing an ethyl-amine group attached to a diphenyl structure.
Integrins are heterodimeric integral membrane glycoproteins composed of a distinct alpha chain and a common beta chain.
Microscopic identification of eggs collected in the perianal area is the method of choice for diagnosis.
This protein may act as a constitutive inhibitor of calcium crystallization in renal fluids.
Granulin family members are important in normal development, wound healing, and tumorigenesis.
Folic acid non-dependent excessive formiminoglutamic aciduria (Figlu-uria) is an extremely rare disorder; treatment with oral folate supplements (15 mg/day) for 3 weeks failed to reduce urinary hydantoin-5-propionic acid.
Peanut agglutinin activity is inhibited by lactose and galactose which compete for the binding site.
This protein displays activity towards several classes of xenobiotic substrates, including simple phenolic compounds, 7-hydroxylated coumarins, flavonoids, anthraquinones, and certain drugs and their hydroxylated metabolites.
Some degree of variability is normal and is due to physiologic processes such as respiration and blood pressure regulation.
The dystrophin-glycoprotein complex (DGC) spans the sarcolemma and is comprised of dystrophin, syntrophin, alpha- and beta-dystroglycans and sarcoglycans.
HER2/neu (also known as ErbB-2) stands for "Human Epidermal growth factor Receptor 2" and is a protein giving higher aggressiveness in breast cancers.
Collagen has great tensile strength, and is the main component of cartilage, ligaments, tendons, bone and teeth.
It plays a role in the immune response to intracellular bacterial lipopolysaccharides (LPS) by recognizing the muramyl dipeptide (MDP) derived from them and activating the NFKB protein.
The FOXL2 (forkhead box L2) gene is located on chromosome 3 at position q22.3.
When exposed over long peroids, patient can develop alimentary toxic aleukia (ATA), characterized by initial symptoms of abdominal pain, diarrhea, vomiting.
An organic acid is any of various acids containing one or more carboncontaining radicals, such as acetic or formic acid, used in oil and gas well-stimulation treatments.
Parasternal short-axis and apical views from Doppler-determined strain measurements are used for recording radial strains.
BZE is pharmacologically inactive and has a longer half-life than its parent drug cocaine.
Azithromycin is used to treat certain bacterial infections, most often bacteria causing middle ear infections, tonsillitis, throat infections, laryngitis, bronchitis, pneumonia and sinusitis.
This can lead to hematuria, urinary tract infections, kidney damage, end stage renal disease, as well as injury to other organs.
Prolylhydroxyproline is a marker of bone collagen degradation, showing high sensitivity for the diagnosis of osteoporosis.
(Practical Haematology; Barbara J. Bain, Imelda Bates, Mike A. Laffan,S. Mitchell Lewis; Eleventh edition; 2012)
A disadvantage of the test is that because EtG can be detected at very low levels, it can also be positive after exposure to alcohol from non-beverage sources such as mouthwash, foods, over-the-counter medications, or incidental exposure, which can lead to false positives.
Ethyl alcohol (ethanol, drinking alcohol) is a central nervous system depressant and can cause effects such as impaired judgment, reduced alertness and impaired muscular coordination.
Lamivudine has been used for treatment of chronic hepatitis B at a lower dose than for treatment of HIV.
A mutation of the toxin A and B suppressor gene tcdC may explain the increased production of toxin.
Fusobacterium is a genus of anaerobic, Gram-negative, non-sporulating organisms commonly found in oropharyngeal, gastrointestinal and genital tracts.
Oregano may uncommonly induce symptoms of food allergy in sensitised individuals.
This results in increased excretion of water and electrolytes, including sodium, potassium, chloride, and magnesium.
Raspberries are generally thought to be only bright red, but in reality can also be dark blue, yellow or white.
It is the most widely used herbicide in the world, and the third most commonly used in North America.
It is easily confused with the very similar species Parietaria officinalis.
Infection is usually asymptomatic when a herd immunity against PCMV is present or when the pigs are six weeks or older in age.
Cortisone is also offered as a drug, and it is converted to cortisol (the active form) in the liver.
It also may play a role in kidney injury and repair, as well as development of T-helper cells.
Mutant alleles at the BCHE locus are responsible for suxamethonium sensitivity.
HAdVs commonly infect children, causing diseases of the respiratory, ocular (conjunctivitis), and gastrointestinal tracts.
Most antibodies are IgG, but IgM and IgA have also been detected.
This results in platelet activation and the formation of platelet microparticles, which initiate the formation of blood clots; the platelet count falls as a result, leading to thrombocytopenia.
Prostaglandin E1 reduces gastric secretion preventing the formation of ulcers.
In certain cases the measurement of these metabolites in body fluids can be used to diagnose disorders associated with mitochondrial fatty acid beta-oxidation.
Another difference between mammalian mitoribosomes and prokaryotic ribosomes is that the latter contain a 5S rRNA.
Lorazepam reduces anxiety, interferes with new memory formation, reduces agitation, induces sleep, treats seizures, treats nausea and vomiting, and relaxes muscles.
Turner syndrome is associated with ovarian dysfunction, short stature and other characteristic physical features, and up to half of girls with Turner syndrome have congenital heart disease.
Autologous blood donation is a method by which an individual may donate his or her own blood to be stored and used for transfusion at a future date.
Histologic focality is whether a single focus or multiple foci of invasive cancer are present on histologic exam.
A plant genus of the family LAMIACEAE that is the source of peppermint oil.
Succinylcholine is used in surgical, anesthetic, and other procedures in which a brief period of muscle relaxation is called for.
Genetic testing is performed to identifying patients who are poor, intermediate, extensive, or ultrarapid metabolizers of drugs metabolized by CYP1A2.
Hemolytic anemias, which cause increased red blood cell breakdown, are one cause of elevated non-glucuronidated bilirubin.
Red blood cell MTX PG levels may be a marker for therapeutic response in patients treated with low-dose MTX, and low red blood cell MTX PG has been associated with poor clinical status in patients with RA.
More than 30 varieties can be obtained with different "flavours": apple, pineapple, lemon, and others.
This gene encodes a member of the F-box protein family which is characterized by an approximately 40 amino acid motif, the F-box.
IDH1 and IDH2 genes encode the isocitrate dehydrogenase 1 & 2 enzymes, respectively.
The quantitative determination of proviral HIV-1 DNA load is determined for antiretroviral treatment, particularly when HIV-1 RNA levels drop below the detectable limits during treatment.
Hymenoclea salsola is a flowering plant in the daisy family known by several common names, including white burrobrush, cheesebush, and desert pearl.
M3 muscarinic acetylcholine receptors (M3R) are part of the rhodopsin-like G-protein coupled receptor family.
Cat-allergic patients with IgE antibodies to Fel d 1 have been shown also to react to the corresponding protein of ocelot, puma, serval, siberian tiger, lion, jaguar, and snow leopard.
These cells represent the main source of hyaluronic acid and also other glycoproteins, major components of the synovial fluid.
Veterinary Medicine: Several species of the gram-negative spirochete Brachyspira can cause swine dysentery (SD) including B. hyodysenteriae, B. intermedia, B. innocens, B. murdochii, B. aalborgi, B. alvinipulli, B. suanatina, and a provisional species called Brachyspira hampsonii.
Its action leads to increased membrane permeability and apparent disruption of enzyme systems bound to the membrane.
Using multiple probes labeled with a mixture of different fluorescent dyes, each chromosome is "painted" using its own unique color, and the resulting full-color map of the chromosome is called a spectral karyotype.
They are composed of cytoplasm that contains various organelles and a cell emebrane boundary.
The catalytic portion of mitochondrial ATP synthase consists of 5 different subunits (alpha, beta, gamma, delta, and epsilon) assembled with a stoichiometry of 3 alpha, 3 beta, and a single representative of the other 3.
TPS is also used as a tumor marker for solid tumors, including Wilms tumor.
Badaquiline should only be used when an effective treatment regimen cannot otherwise be provided.
A pea is the small, edible round green bean which grows in a pod on the leguminous vine Pisum sativum, or in some cases to the immature pods.
Usually not clinically significant, but in large numbers can indicate gout or toxicity.
Clofazimine is a fat-soluble riminophenazine dye used for the treatment of leprosy.
7-dehydrocholesterol reductase (DHCR7, reduces the C7-C8 double bond in the sterol B ring to form cholesterol or desmosterol depending upon the precursor.
Dilute Russell viper venom time (dRVVT) is one of the tests used to detect the presence of lupus anticoagulants (LA), which are autoantibodies associated with excess clot formation, excess bleeding, and repeated miscarriages.
The name is derived from the fact that the protein is 100% Soluble in ammonium sulfate at neutral pH. Several members of the S-100 protein family are useful as markers for certain tumors and epidermal differentiation.
It is caused by Viscerotropic virus of the genus Orbivirus belonging to the family Reoviridae.
The general population risk of Edwards syndrome is 1 out of 5,000 live births, and the risk for Edwards syndrome increases with increasing maternal age.
Oxytetracycline may also be used to treat other rarer infections, such as those caused by a group of micro-organisms called rickettsiae (e.g. Q fever).
Pituitary prolactin secretion is regulated by neuroendocrine neurons in the hypothalamus, most importantly by neurosecretory dopamine neurons of the arcuate nucleus, which inhibit prolactin secretion.
Methylhippuric acid is a metabolite of xylene which is an aromatic hydrocarbon widely used as a solvant.
It is an important cause of hemorrhagic illness in many African and South American countries despite existence of an effective vaccine.
At least three alternatively spliced variants encoding distinct proteins have been reported, two of which encode structurally related isoforms known to function as inhibitors of CDK4 kinase.
Encephalomyocarditis virus (EMCV) is a small non-enveloped, positive single-strand RNA virus that belongs to the Picornaviridae family.
The methionine derivative S-adenosyl methionine (SAM) serves as a methyl donor.
rDer p 10, Tropomyosin, is an important diagnostic tool for evaluating crossreactivity between house dust mites, crustaceans, insects and mollusks.
It slows conduction in the heart and makes the heart tissue less sensitive.
A non-imidazole blocker of those histamine receptors that mediate gastric secretion (H2 receptors).
The CCR5 gene (chemokine (C-C motif) receptor 5 (gene/pseudogene)) is located on chromosome 3p21.31.
Borrelia afzelii is a species of Borrelia genus that can infect various species of vertebrate and invertebrates.
Pathogenic species can cause foodborne illness, usually associated with eating undercooked seafood.
It also occurs south into northern Baja California in Mexico.
It is an essential element, especially important in thyroid hormone synthesis.
In E. coli, the MutS protein helps in the recognition of mismatched nucleotides prior to their repair.
Drinking water also contains sodium, but the amount depends on the source.
Infection with Babesia leads to a wide range and severity of symptoms.
CD9 molecule, also known as CD9, is a human gene.
In so doing, the edges of the blood vessel wall at the point of injury are slowly brought together again to repair the damage.
Drugs in this class include pembrolizumab and nivolumab, both of which are anti-PD-1 receptor antibodies, and atezolizumab, which is an anti-PD-L1 antibody.
Tube thoracostomy (TT) is commonly used for traumatic injuries which result in hemothorax and pneumothorax.
Although a broad-spectrum antimicrobial, its efficacy is not as good as enrofloxacin or pradofloxacin.
Based on this knowledge, the Swedish company Astra AB was able to derive the first marketed selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor, zimelidine, from chlorphenamine.
Glucose-6-phosphatase catalyzes the hydrolysis of D-glucose 6-phosphate to D-glucose and orthophosphate and is a key enzyme in glucose homeostasis, functioning in gluconeogenesis and glycogenolysis.
The levels of the ratios will change if the defect in the Golgi apparatus is present.
Ocular melanoma is a rare cancer of the pigment cells in the eye.
One of its metabolites is DIAZEPAM and one of its excretion products is OXAZEPAM.
It is primarily used as an intermediate in the chemical synthesis of other compounds.
Disease-producing bacteria are known to make more deoxyribonuclease (DNase) than benign microbes.
While the drug is active against a wide spectrum of pathogens, it is particularly effective in the treatment of respiratory and genital tract infections.
The profile of various pterins in serum, urine, and cerebrospinal fluid is used to diagnose pediatric neurotransmitter diseases caused by defects in the pterin biosynthetic pathway.
Aspergillus terreus is a fungus commonly used in industry to produce important organic acids, such as itaconic acid and cis-aconitic acid.
Because aluminum competes with calcium for absorption, increased amounts of dietary aluminum may contribute to the reduced skeletal mineralization (osteopenia) observed in preterm infants and infants with growth retardation.
Bifidobacterium is a genus of Gram-positive, non-motile, often branched anaerobic bacteria inhabiting the gastrointestinal tract and vagina.
Lindane is extremely toxic to fish, bees and aquatic invertebrates.
For CYP3A5, poor metabolizers are typically expected to require standard dosing of tacrolimus.
The revised Geneva score is a clinical decision support tool for identifying the probability of a patient having pulmonary embolism (PE).
It is responsible for decreased drug accumulation in multidrug-resistant cells and often mediates the development of resistance to anticancer drugs.
Plasminogen Activator Inhibitor 1 (PAI-1) is an acute-phase reactant that inhibits plasminogen activators.
Because of the short life-span of neutrophils, these abnormal cells characteristically appear even before the onset of anemia.
It is either an off-white or yellow solid, depending on its purity, with a musty odor.
The protein appears to play a role in vesicle maturation during exocytosis and is involved in regulation of cytolytic granules secretion.
Some of these act by interfering with the growth of the weed and are often based on plant hormones.
They exist as anions at physiological pH and, consequently, require a carrier for transport across the membranes of the enterohepatic tissues.
F. necrophorum is the most virulent and may cause severe infections, such as pharyngotonsillitis, jugular vein septic thrombophlebitis, and general sepsis particularly in children and young adults.
The sample can then be re-analysed to see if the prolactin levels are still high.
IgE antibodies to alpha lactalbumin and beta lactoglobulin are found in most patients allergic to milk.
Hyaluronic acid is also a component of the group A streptococcal extracellular capsule, and is believed to play a role in virulence
FOXP3 (forkhead box P3) also known as scurfin is a protein involved in immune system responses.
Oseltamivir (INN) is an antiviral drug that slows the spread of influenza virus between cells in the body by stopping the virus from chemically cutting ties with its host cell-median time to symptom alleviation is reduced by 0.5-1 day.
It is created by substituting the cladinose sugar with a ketogroup and adding a carbamate ring in the lactone ring.
Like other antiretrovirals, it is used to treat infection of human immunodeficiency virus (HIV).
It has predominantly anticholinergic side effects, though extrapyramidal side effects are not uncommon either.
They sometimes include anaphylactic reactions with common symptoms such as urticaria, flushing and angioedema as well as more serious respiratory and cardiovascular symptoms.
Usually seen as part of a battery of lysomal enzymes.
Indolamines are a family of neurotransmitters that share a common molecular structure (namely, indolamine).
While members of the B. subtilis group are commonly thought of as a culture contaminant, they have been implicated in bacteremia, endocarditis and other infections, especially in immunocompromised patients .
In the United States, Hickories are found principally in the eastern states and not in the Pacific states.
This enzyme catalyzes the stepwise oxidative decarboxylation of coproporphyrinogen III to protoporphyrinogen IX, a precursor of heme.
Clostridium septicum can cause gas gangrene, but unlike other Clostridium species like Clostridium perfringens, no trauma is necessary at the site of the infection.
Colchicine disrupts the microtubule formation which is necessary for the spindle fibers to separate the chromosomes during anaphase.
Influenza viruses A and B are single-stranded RNA enveloped viruses belonging to the Orthomyxoviridae family.
A large study found the 5 year overall survival for patient's with this translocation was 28% in children and 9% in adults.
The bipolar-cell depolarization increases the level of extracellular potassium, subsequently generating a transretinal current.
CDG Ib is different from the other CDGs in that it does not have significant central nervous system involvement.
Anti-Ha and anti-Zo antibodies are the most recent autoantibodies to be identified in patients with symptoms of ASS.
Its levels are reduced in response to villi-blunting events such as celiac sprue and the inflammation associated with the disorder.
Adefovir was initially developed for treatment of HIV, sold under the brand name Preveon.
Direct or indirect contact with animal allergens frequently causes sensitisation.
In all of the other species the virus causes no obvious disease.
A formate (compound) is a salt or ester of formic acid.
Potentially pathogenic bacteria found in nasal membranes, skin, hair follicles, and perineum of warm-blooded animals.
Progress Note documents a patient's clinical status during a hospitalization or outpatient visit; thus, it is associated with an encounter.
A solution to that problem is the development of newborn screening assays that can detect heparan sulfate, though the levels in the dried blood spot samples do not appear to predict the severity of disease.
Meta-chlorophenylpiperazine is a major metabolite of the psychotropic drug trazodone, and may be responsible for some of its side-effects, such as headaches and migraines induced many hours after initial consumption.
Plesiomonas shigelloides is a Gram-negative, rod-shaped bacterium which has been isolated from freshwater, freshwater fish, shellfish, and from many types of animals.
The normal range of alkaline phosphatase is 20 to 140 IU/L. High ALP levels are present in children and pregnant women, if bile ducts are blocked, and in the presence of osteoblast activity, such as with Paget's disease of the bone.
This leads to chronic immune suppression, becoming increasingly severe over the course of many years and ultimately resulting in death if left untreated.
Phosphogluconate dehydrogenase is an enzyme in the pentose phosphate pathway.
A vaccination against type b H influenza has been developed and proven efffective.
Since 2014 it has spread explosively in the Americas where it has infected hundreds of thousands of people.
Dog dander consists of the very small pieces of epithelium that flake off the dog and can remain airborne for hours.
Vitamin B12 bound to TC-1 (hapatocorrin) is unavailable in our metabolism.
Infection with the hepatitis delta virus (hepatitis delta-agent, HDV) is always seen in association with hepatitis B Virus (HBV) infection, where it may occur as a simultaneous acute infection or as an acute super-infection superimposed upon a case of chronic HBV hepatitis.
Hexachlorobutadiene, Cl2C=C(Cl)C(Cl)=CCl2, is a colorless liquid at room temperature that has an odor similar to that of turpentine.
The WAS gene (Wiskott-Aldrich syndrome) is located on chromosome Xp11.4-p11.21.
Its main action on the cell is to uncouple oxidative phosphorylation and therefore deplete levels of cellular ATP.
This gene product is thought to be involved in DNA double-strand break repair and DNA damage-induced checkpoint activation.
When a patient has a tracheal tube, these pressure changes can be measured.
The inhibition or degradation of this kinase is found to be involved in the pathogenesis of Yersinia and anthrax.
(e.g. inhalation of the powder from latex gloves, direct skin or mucosa (membrane) contact).
It differs from stanozolol by having a furazan ring system in place of the pyrazole.
Influenza virus A RNA tissue culture infective dose 50 (TCID50) is an estimate of the infectious virus titer.
Mutations in this gene are associated with Sanfilippo syndrome A, one type of the lysosomal storage disease mucopolysaccaridosis III, which results from impaired degradation of heparan sulfate.
A species of bacteria present in man and many kinds of animals and birds, often causing infertility and/or abortion.
Thus niacinamide does not reduce cholesterol or cause flushing, although nicotinamide may be toxic to the liver at doses exceeding 3 g/day for adults.
The drug is used in the treatment of seasonal allergic rhinitis, asthma, allergic conjunctivitis, and chronic idiopathic urticaria.
Bendiocarb is an acutely toxic carbamate insecticide used in public health and agriculture and is effective against a wide range of nuisance and disease vector insects.
California encephalitis virus is an arbovirus of the California (CAL) serogroup virus which belongs to the Bunyaviridae family of viruses, and the genus Orthobunyavirus.
The CHIKV genome encodes for two polyproteins; the non-structural polyprotein consisting of four proteins (nsP1, nsP2, nsP3 and nsP4) and the structural polyprotein consisting of five proteins (Capsid, E3, E2, 6K and E1).
It has the broadest range of the North American Maples, and is found throughout eastern and central North America.
alpha-Mannosidase is an enzyme involved in the cleavage of the alpha form of mannose.
Acylcarnitine analysis enables the diagnosis of many disorders of fatty acid oxidation and several organic acidurias, as relevant enzyme deficiencies cause the accumulation of specific acyl-CoAs.
The number of TRECs is proportional to T cell production, with low TREC numbers being an indicator of inadequate T cell production.
A gamma-aminobutyric acid derivative that is a specific agonist at GABA-B receptors (receptors, GABA-B).
In part, whitlockite occurs commonly in biologic systems because of the high concentrations of proteolipids and divalent cations in biologic fluids.
Elevated pancreatic amylase levels can be found in pancreatic pleural effusions from patients with pancreatitis.
The expanded coverage of this combination makes it a useful alternative when penicillin resistance is present and patients cannot tolerate alternative treatments.
Pollen from this tree also affects the severity of atopic dermatitis and is an important factor in oral allergy syndrome.
An MCS value above a certain cutoff, which can vary across laboratories, signifies a positive crossmatch, meaning that a potential recipient has antibodies to donor antigens.
NV spreads quickly in closed spaces such as daycare centers, nursing homes, schools, and cruise ships.
The vectors are mosquitoes and may include Aedes scapularis and Psorophora ferox .
C. lunata is distinguished by septate, dematiaceous hyphae producing brown, geniculate conidiophores.
The addition of inhibin A testing to second trimester screens including AFP and hCG has been shown to significantly improve the rate of detection of Down's syndrome.
Streptomycin is an antibiotic drug, the first of a class of drugs called aminoglycosides to be discovered, and was the first antibiotic remedy for tuberculosis.
The amazing life cycle begins when these catadromous fish first spawn at sea but then spend most of their lives in inland waters.
The presence of anabasine in biological fluids indicates active tobacco use.
The full genome of the SARS-CoV-2 that causes COVID-19 was first posted by Chinese health authorities in GenBank, the NIH genetic sequence database, and in the Global Initiative on Sharing All Influenza Data (GISAI) portal.
ABC proteins transport various molecules across extra- and intracellular membranes.
Epinephrine acts as a neurotransmitter in the central nervous system and as a hormone in the blood circulation.
Acknowledgement: Authorization for administration of medication away from clinic, provider signature and date, parent/guardian authorization: signatures and dates consenting school to give medications.
C. tetani produces a potent biological toxin, tetanospasmin, and is the causative agent of tetanus, a disease characterized by painful muscular spasms that can lead to respiratory failure and, in up to 40% of cases, death.
Mulberry pollens can induce asthma, allergic rhinitis and allergic conjunctivitis.
Rickettsia species are carried by many ticks, fleas, and lice, and cause a variety of diseases in humans.
In healthy children, parvovirus B19 infection manifests itself with a malar rash while adult infection results in a mild flu-like illness.
Expression of CD27 is characteristic of naive T-cells and some subsets of memory T-cells, while lack of CD27 is characteristic of effector T-cells.. CD45RA is characteristic of resting or naive T-cells.
Since Hemoglobin Barts is elevated in alpha thalassaemia, it can be measured, providing a useful screening test for this disease in some populations.
The causal relationship of the diagnosis to a patient's death, e.g., primary, underlying, contributory.
A parasitic hemoflagellate of the subgenus Leishmania viannia that infects man and animals.
Sensitive aPTT has less phospholipid relative to the standard aPTT reagent, which makes the test more sensitive to the presence of phospholipid antibodies.
The HNA 5 system has two antigens, HNA-5a and HNA-5b, located on CD11a.
CHIKV can be detected between the first and fourth day of infection (the acute phase) using PCR or virus cultivation, and virus-specific IgM and IgG antibodies can be detected during the 8th to the 10th day of infection.
New epidemiological evidence has shown that enterococci are major infectious agent in chronic bacterial prostatitis.
As a result, the BMPR1A protein cannot bind to ligands in the TGF-β pathway.
The human gastrointestinal (GI) tract is colonized by EC within hours of birth.
Alnus rubra (red alder) is a deciduous broadleaf tree native to western North America.
Ethosuximide suppresses the paroxysmal three cycle per second spike and wave activity associated with lapses of consciousness.
PDH deficiency is a common cause of lactic acidosis in newborns and often presents with severe lethargy, poor feeding, tachypnea, and cases of death have occurred.
Variants in the ITPA gene lead to inosine triphosphate pyrophosphatase deficiency (ITPAD),which is characterized by the abnormal accumulation of ITP in erythrocytes.
Fibrin monomer concentrations are typically compared with those of D-dimer to monitor various hemostatic conditions, such as deep vein thrombosis (DVT) and pulmonary embolism (PE) status.
In addition to CD3-, a majority of NK cells are further gated on the expression of CD56 (neural cell adhesion molecule) and CD16 (low-affinity IgG Fc receptor-FcgammaRIII) cell surface markers.
Patients with C7 deficiency have increased susceptibility to neisserial infections and some have developed systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE), rheumatoid arthritis (RA), scleroderma, and pyoderma gangrenosum.
Branchlets are nearly smooth, but not as smooth as the branches of Firs.
Procalcitonin (PCT) is a precursor of the hormone calcitonin, which is involved with calcium homeostasis, and is produced by the C-cells of the thyroid gland.
Mutations in this gene are also associated with autosomal recessive deafness-89.
Adenine phosphoribosyltransferase (APRTase) is an enzyme involved in the purine nucleotide salvage pathway and encoded by the APRT gene.
Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different protein isoforms have been found for this gene.
They reproduces asexually in red blood cells and sexually in the Ixodid tick.
The GPR98 gene (G protein-coupled receptor 98) is located on chromosome 5q13.
The gene for MBP is on chromosome 18; the protein localizes to the CNS and to various cells of the hematopoietic system.
Interleukin-18 also known as IL18 is a protein which in humans is encoded by the IL18 gene.
The normal urinary constituent 4-deoxythreonic acid was found to be diminished in urine incubated with E. coli.
The Colorado Pinyon, Two-needle Pinyon, or Piñon Pine, (Pinus edulis ), is a pine in the pinyon pine group whose ancestor was a member of the Madro-Tertiary Flora (a group of drought resistant trees) and is native to the United States.
Collagenases are enzymes that break the peptide bonds in collagen.
F. moniliforme is widely distributed on numerous grasses and other plants and is a common soil fungus.
These compounds include phylloquinone (vitamin K1) and a series of menaquinones (vitamin K2).
Many derivatives are controversial because of the effects of these compounds on the environment.
The cause of AIED is believed to be due to damage of the inner ear from autoantibodies or immune cells and cytokines due to inflammation.
Prostate specific antigen (PSA) is a protein produced by the cells of the prostate gland.
It is a normal constituent of human urine with concentrations in normal samples too small to allow its routine detection; however, it has been found at increased levels in the urine of a patient with aminoacylase I deficiency.
The objective of this study was to investigate whether CSF biomarkers including p-tau181 are altered in patients with NIID.
Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
para-Hydroxyamphetamine (PHA), also known as Norpholedrine (Oxamphetamine, Paredrine), 4-hydroxyamphetamine (4-HA), and α-methyltyramine (α-Me-TRA), is a drug that stimulates the sympathetic nervous system.
Seven of these species are native to India, and others to Europe, Asia, and northern Africa.
Reduction in cGMP leads to closure of the sodium ion channels, which results in a decrease of inwardly directed sodium ions, or hyperpolarization of the cell.
Being a vasoconstrictor used to decongest nasal mucosa, it is administered by inhalation.
Anecdotal evidence suggests that asthma, allergic rhinitis and allergic conjunctivitis are common following exposure to pollen from Goldenrod, particularly in an occupational setting, e.g., that of flower sellers; however, few specific studies have been reported to date.
They circulate through the body and stop in various organs where they undergo differentiation into histiocytes which are part of the mononuclear phagocyte system (MPS).
Depending on the context, the AHA segments may be further subdivided in order to provide finer anatomic granularity.
Cytosine is deaminated into uracil by a number of cytosine deaminases.
The androgen receptor is most closely related to the progesterone receptor, and progestins in higher dosages can block the androgen receptor.
Prothrombin time (PT) assays that use PIVKA-sensitive thromboplastin are considered to be more sensitive to factor II, VII and X deficiencies compared to standard PT assays.
The cohesin multiprotein complex is required for sister chromatid cohesion.
Lysozyme is an enzyme, commonly referred to as the body's own antibiotic since it kills bacteria.
Sometimes called the sword lily, the most widely used English common name for these plants is simply gladiolus (plural gladioli, gladioluses or sometimes gladiolas).
It is detectable in URINE after OVULATION and is found in great quantities in the pregnancy urine.
Occupational dermatitis after contact with pork meat has been reported.
Hydroxymethylglutaryl CoA lyase deficiency (HMG; also known as 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl-coenzyme A lyase deficiency and 3-Hydroxy-3-methylglutaric aciduria) is an inherited disorder in which the body is unable to process the amino acid leucine or make ketones properly.
The internal transcribed spacer (ITS) region of ribosomal DNA is present across a variety of bacterial and fungal pathogens.
Maximum expiratory pressure (MEP) reflects the strength and function of expiratory muscles.
Chlorpropamide is a sulphonylurea drug used to treat type 2 diabetes mellitus.
The amount of phospholipid included in the aPTT-LA reagent is diminshed relative to the standard aPTT reagent.
This enzyme is released into phagosomes in order to destroy phagocytized pathogens.
Frequency of testing varies among patients, but current recommendations include BCR/ABL testing at 3 month intervals.
Human epidermal growth factor was originally isolated from urine based on its ability to inhibit gastric secretion and called urogastrone.
As a hypothetical example, one enzyme may be known to cut a specific 500 base pair (bp) segment of DNA into two pieces that are 200 and 300 bp, or three pieces that are 50, 150 and 300 bp, or to not cut the segment at all depending on the nucleotide sequence in that specific sample.
Germanium has five naturally occurring isotopes ranging in atomic mass number from 70 to 76.
It can be difficult to treat since it is resistant to a number of antifungal agents including fluconazole.
There are eight groups of rotavirus, A through H. Groups A, B, C, and H are associated with an acute gastroenteritis and are found in humans and animals.
ApoCIII isoform analysis, which includes the apolipoprotein CIII-0/apolipoprotein CIII-2 ratio and the apolipoprotein CIII-1/apolipoprotein CIII-2 ratio, is one of the screening tests for CDG.
A polyhydric alcohol with about half the sweetness of sucrose.
Some patients with prolidase deficiency have a marked urinary excretion of the iminodipeptide Glycylproline.
There are 3 distinct domains of this factor: extracellular, transmembrane, and cytoplasmic.
Aliphatic diisocyanates are used in special applications, such as enamel coatings which are resistant to abrasion and degradation from ultraviolet light.
The measurement of alpha hydroxybutyrate dehydrogenase activity has been used as cardiac specific marker in various ways over time (including perioperatively) to detect myocardial infarction, either alone or in combination with CK-MB.
It also binds the malaria parasite Plasmodium vivax, and RBCs that lack the Duffy Fy^a and Fy^b antigens are resistant to invasion.
The presence of F at codon 141 has been associated with increased susceptibility to Nor98 or an atypical form of scrapie.
Typing is usually done by hemagglutination-inhibition and/or neutralization with type-specific antisera or by molecular methods.
Cinnamon may commonly induce symptoms of food allergy in sensitised individuals.
The venom of a black imported fire ant is roughly the equivalent of a wasp sting.
It is used as an antifreeze and coolant, in hydraulic fluids, and in the manufacture of low-freezing dynamites and resins.
alpha-Linolenic acid is an organic compound found in many common vegetable oils.
There are many factors that may lead to decreased numbers of RBCs including hemorrhage, hemolysis, iron or vitamin deficiency, marrow failure and more.
Lysophosphatidylcholine(20:0), or LysoPC(20:0), lysophospholipid (LyP); it is a monoglycerophospholipid in which a phosphorylcholine moiety occupies a glycerol substitution site, more specificially it consists of one chain of arachidic acid at the C-1 (sn-1) position.
Acetamide (IUPAC: ethanamide) is an organic compound with the formula CH3CONH2.
Cytidine is a nucleoside that is composed of the base cytosine linked to the five-carbon sugar D-ribose.
The enzyme is similar to thrombin, but unlike thrombin, is not affected by the presence of heparin.
The infecting agent or prion is a mal-formed version (PrPsc) of a normal protein (PrP) found in all animals.
It is often used to treat muscle injuries and as a digestive aid.
Isoleucine an essential, branched-chain aliphatic amino acid found in many proteins.
It can be used to treat oliguria associated with kidney failure or other manifestations of inadequate renal function and has been used for determination of glomerular filtration rate.
Both methylated DNA and CTC correlated with a more aggressive tumor biology and advanced disease.
Boron is used for building strong bones, treating osteoarthritis, as an aid for building muscles and increasing testosterone levels, and for improving thinking skills and muscle coordination.
In the US it is not indicated for use in humans and is only available through veterinary clinics.
Charcot-Leyden crystals are microscopic crystals found in people who have allergic diseases such as asthma or parasitic infections such as parasitic pneumonia or ascariasis.
Chromosomal translocation t(14;18)(q32;q21)(IGH,MALT1) was first detected in mucosa-associated lymphoid tissue (MALT) lymphoma.
Genetic testing is performed to identifying patients who are poor, intermediate, extensive, or ultrarapid metabolizers of drugs metabolized by CYP1A2.
Coronavirus (MERS-CoV) infections as do the fatality rate and transmissibility.
Bacteremia can result in osteomyelitis (infection of bones) or arthritis (of joints).
3-Hydroxyadipate is a normal urinary dicarboxylic acid derived from the omega-oxidation of 3-hydroxy fatty acids and the subsequent beta-oxidation of longer chain 3-hydroxy dicarboxylic acids.
The ARSA gene (arylsulfatase A) is located on chromosome 22q13.33.
Polychromasia is usually a sign of bone marrow stress due to blood loss or other conditions.
Two biologically and serologically distinct Staphylococcus aureus exotoxins are responsible for SSSS in humans - exfoliative toxin A (eta) and exfoliative toxin B (etb).
The infecting agent or prion is a mal-formed version (PrPsc) of a normal protein (PrP) found in all animals.
Three concentrations each for Candida (CA) and Tetanus (TT) (same for mitogens) are used and only the result at the concentration of antigen/mitogen that gives maximal response for that individual (since this can vary from person to person) is reported.
S. maltophilia are catalase-positive, oxidase-negative (which distinguishes them from most other members of the genus) and have a positive reaction for extracellular DNase.
The protein encoded by the c-mpl gene, CD110, is a 635 amino acid transmembrane domain, with two extracellular cytokine receptor domains and two intracellular cytokine receptor box motifs.
Over 14 species of Serratia have been identified with S. marcescens being the most common clinical isolate.
A diverse genus of minute freshwater CRUSTACEA, of the suborder CLADOCERA.
If the obstetrician is not physically present, then the intern or nurse-midwife is reported as the attendant.
The presence of succinylaminoimidazole carboxamide riboside (SAICAriboside) and succinyladenosine (S-Ado) in body fluids is a hallmarks of adenylosuccinase deficiency.
Alminoprofen is a nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID), of the phenylpropionic acid class, having anti-inflammatory anti-exudative properties which mimic the action of dexamethasone, an anti-inflammatory steroid, and distinguishes alminoprofen from the classical NSAID.
The only North American producer, Monsanto Company, marketed chemical mixtures of PCBs under the trade name Aroclor from 1930 to 1977.
It was approved by the United States Food and Drug Administration (FDA) in 1989 and is the only FDA-approved medication indicated for treatment-resistant schizophrenia and for reducing the risk of suicidal behaviour in patients with schizophrenia.
Furthermore, the precise expression pattern of keratin subtypes allows prediction of the origin of the primary tumor when assessing metastases.
Aspergillus restrictus is a species of fungus in the family Trichocomaceae.
Numerous species of Elder tree or Elderberry grow in Europe and North America.
The level of serum 1,25-dihydroxy-vitamin D is not usually used to determine vitamin D status because it has a short half-life of 15 hours and is tightly regulated by parathyroid hormone, calcium, and phosphate, such that it does not decrease significantly until vitamin D deficiency is already well advanced
The natural barriers of the GI tract prevent infection by symbiotic EC except when they break down such as in peritonitis.
In the absence of extrapulmonal shunting, FShunt provides information about the intrapulmonary component of hypoxemia.
It is a colorless, flammable gas, slightly soluble in water.
The disease is recurrent during warm seasons in the Mid-West and mid-Atlantic whose hardwood trees provide breeding sites for the mosquito species Aedes triseriatus.
Von Willebrand disease (VWD) is caused by either a qualitative or quantitative deficit of the multimeric glycoprotein known as von Willebrand factor (VWF).
AB-CHMINACA hydroxycyclohexyl and AB-CHMINACA butanoate are metabolites of AB-CHMINACA (N--1--1H-indazole-3-carboxamide), an indazole-based synthetic cannabinoid that shows high affinity for cannabinoid CB1 and CB2 receptors.
This change is associated with a reduced risk of progression to AIDS in HIV-infected individuals, renal transplant rejection, multiple sclerosis and development of breast cancer.
Electrooculography (EOG) is a technique for measuring the resting potential of the retina.
Chromosomal translocations involving this gene are well-documented and have been associated with several types of leukemia.
Complex carbohydrate rich foods include whole grains, brown bread, brown rice, vegetables and beans.
Intraductal carcinoma of the prostate (IDC-P) is usually associated with invasive prostate cancer with large tumor volume and worse prognosis.
A species in the group RETICULOENDOTHELIOSIS VIRUSES, AVIAN of the genus GAMMARETROVIRUS that causes a chronic neoplastic and a more acute immunosuppressive disease in fowl.
The size of the deletion varies among affected individuals; studies suggest that larger deletions tend to result in more severe intellectual disability and developmental delay than smaller deletions.
The body uses tryptophan to help make niacin and serotonin.
Use in organic chemistry:In the field of organic chemistry the abbreviation Ac refers to the acetyl group CH3 CO, therefore in the organic chemistry literature acetate is referred to as ˆ'OAc, sodium acetate as NaOAc, and ethyl acetate as EtOAc.
Cystic fibrosis is characterized by epithelial secretory dysfunction associated with ductal obstruction resulting in airway obstruction, chronic respiratory infections, pancreatic insufficiency, maldigestion, salt depletion, and heat prostration.
Butyl acetate has four isomers: tert-butyl acetate, n-butyl acetate, isobutyl acetate, and sec-butyl acetate.
Venlafaxine is in a class of medications called selective serotonin and norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs).
It is active resistant bacteria such as methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA), multi-drug resistant Streptococcus pneumoniae (MDRSP) and vancomycin-resistant enterococci (VRE).
The SOD1 gene (superoxide dismutase 1, soluble) is located on chromosome 21q22.11.
The enzyme catalyzes the hydrolysis of a 5'-ribonucleotide to a ribonucleoside and orthophosphate in the presence of water.
This term was created for, but not limited in use to, the HL7 Implementation Guide for CDA Release 2: Consolidated CDA Templates for Clinical Notes (US Realm) Draft Standard for Trial Use Release 2.1.
Its structure is unrelated to those of the benzodiazepines, but it has an efficacy comparable to DIAZEPAM.
PCR assays have been devloped that target various areas of the genome including genes for non-structured proteins, the capsid protein, or the 3' or 5' untranslated regions.
Phosphate levels also affects the level of calcium in the blood, so both calcium and phosphate levels are usually measured at the same time.
The b-wave amplitude is generally measured from the trough of the a-wave to the peak of the b-wave.
The ANA intercellular bridge pattern, previously called stem body or midbody, shows staining of the bridge that connects two daughter cells before they separate at the end of cell division.
The same applies to other flow cytometer measures that are looking only at lymphocytes (B-cells, NK cells, etc).
They can be identified by their distinctive combination of black-and-yellow color, small size (slightly larger than a bee), and entirely black antennae.
Glutamic acid undergoes deamination, removes nitrogen from amino acids, and allows excretion in the form of urea.
Warfarin is indicated for the prophylaxis and/or treatment of venous thrombosis and its extension, pulmonary embolism, and atrial fibrillation with embolization.
This organic compound has been use since the 1940s for the treatment of inflammatory bowel diseases (IBDs), where it has shown greater potency in Ulcerative Colitis and Crohn's disease.
At least a dozen species of Campylobacter have been implicated in human disease, with C. jejuni and C. coli the most common.
Pregnenolone sulfate as a neurosteroid modulates various ion channels, transporters, and enzymes.
During exercise, it is thought to act in a hormone-like manner to mobilize extracellular substrates and/or augment substrate delivery.
It is highly likely, however, that infected ticks occur in other areas of both states.
They have been used as a medicine for more than 50 years to treat thyroid gland disorders.
Depending on the size of inclusions, they can be classified as fine or coarse, though the distinction has no diagnostic significance.
XLR-11 N-(4-hydroxypentyl) is a metabolite of XLR-11, a synthetic cannabinoid that binds to the cannabinoid CB receptors.
Saturated fatty acids have no double bonds between the carbon atoms of the fatty acid chain and are thus fully saturated with hydrogen atoms.
As of November 2019, the BPaL regimen has been approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration for treating adult patients with extensively drug resistant (XDR) or treatment-intolerant or nonresponsive multidrug-resistant (MDR) pulmonary TB, and pretomanid is under review in the European Union.
Said to have been cultivated in 16th-century Belgium, Brussels Sprouts are a member of the Cabbage (Brassicaceae) family and, indeed, resemble tiny Cabbage heads.
An antidiabetic sulfonylurea derivative with actions similar to those of chlorpropamide.
This gene encodes a secreted inhibitor which protects epithelial tissues from serine proteases.
The biologically active components of the complex are nystatin A1, A2, and A3.
It has been proposed for infections with certain anaerobes and may be useful in inner ear, bile, and CNS infections.
With sucrose intolerance, the result of consuming sucrose is excess gas production and often diarrhea and malabsorption.
Establishments that process blood products are regulated by the FDA need to register with FDA.
Dextromethorphan shows high affinity binding to several regions of the brain, including the medullary cough center.
Strawberry may commonly induce symptoms of food allergy in sensitised individuals, and was reported to be a common cause of allergy in childre.
Routine testing of Factor Xa inhibitor levels is not recommended because they have such a wide therapeutic index.
Ureaplasma species inhabit both the respiratory and urogenital tracts and are among the sexually transmitted infections.
It has been shown to induce hypotension in the rat, to stimulate contraction of guinea pig ileum and rat uterus, and to cause relaxation of rat duodenum.
The red cell distribution width (RDW) is a measure of anisocytosis.
The ASXL1 (additional sex combs like 1, transcriptional regulator) gene is located on chromosome 20 at 20q11.21.
The encoded protein is found in the membrane of the endoplasmic reticulum.
It can cause kidney damage, altered renal functions and a higher production of alpha2uglobulin protein.
Green plants are a natural source of pyridoxal, and its deficiency in humans can lead to serious complications such as epilepsy and seizures.
Besides the House Rats, the genus Rattus contains several hundred wild-living species.
Codons associated with susceptibility/resistance to scrapie include codon 112, 136, 141, 154 and 171.
The concentration ratio of 11-hydroxyetiocholanolone/11-hydroxyandrosterone is increased in patients with uterine leiomyomas, and it appears to be caused by a decrease in patients' metabolite of steroids.
Deficiencies in selenium have been linked to increased risk of cancer.
The MRPS18A gene (mitochondrial ribosomal protein S18A) is located on chromosome 6p21.3.
The EC pathotypes that infects extraintestinal locations have been designated ExPEC.
An odorless, tasteless powder or crystal that occurs in nature.
Products containing this drug are sold under a wide variety of names including (but not limited to)
In addition to adhesion, integrins are known to participate in cell-surface mediated signalling.
In most patients with erythropoietic protoporphyria (EPP), a pathogenic FECH mutation that reduces enzyme activity by 50% can be identified on only 1 allele.
The cytochrome P450 proteins are monooxygenases which catalyze many reactions involved in drug metabolism and synthesis of cholesterol, steroids and other lipids.
PCR, serological and histopathological studies may also be employed depending on the suspected leprosy form.
EC adheres to the small intestine using adhesin factors, and produces one or more exotoxins that induce fluid and electrolyte secretion.
Diagnostic methods for IBV have greatly improved over time, less sensitive and time consuming serology tests and viral cultures have been replaced by methods such as reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR), Restriction Fragment Length Polymorphism (RFLP), and sequencing.
DQB1*0301 is the major DQ7 allele DQB1*0301 appears to be associated with lupus anticoagulant.
Its antibiotic properties arise from its ability to prevent cross-linking of peptidoglycan during cell wall synthesis when the bacteria tries to divide, causing death.
It is used in veterinary medicine under the trade names Marbocyl and Zeniquin.
Brucella melitensis is a gram-negative coccobacillus bacterium from the Brucellaceae family.
Flavin mononucleotide (FMN) and flavin adenine dinucleotide (FAD) are both synthesized from riboflavin (vitamin B2).
Reticulocytes are immature red blood cells (RBC), comprising about 1% of the red cells in the human body.
CD10, a type II transmembrane protein found on pre-B cells, germinal-center B cells, some neutrophils, kidney cells, T-cell precursors, and epithelial cells that acts as a zinc metalloprotease cleaving peptide bonds on the amino side of hydrophobic amino acids; expressed in acute lymphocytic leukemia and follicular-center-cell lymphomas.
High concentrations of free gossypol most commonly cause impairment of male and female reproduction.
The superoxide is instrumental in producing antibiotic chemicals including hydrogen peroxide and hypochlorous acid.
However, the disease can cause serious sequellae in infants and children.
The most common type of bleeding due to abciximab is gastrointestinal hemorrhage.
Serum calcium levels do not fluctuate in response to dietary intake.
For scoring, typically the patient's answers, or scores, for each chart are recorded as-is in the patient's medical record; no scoring algorithm or computing is necessary.
A centrally active muscarinic antagonist that has been used in the symptomatic treatment of PARKINSON DISEASE.
Unlike basophils, mast cells normally remain in the tissues and do not circulate in the blood.
Memantine is the first in a novel class of Alzheimer's disease medications acting on the glutamatergic system by blocking NMDA glutamate receptors.
Mutations in TNFAIP3 cause a familial, autosomal dominant Behcet-like autoinflammatory syndrome that is characterized by mucosal ulceration, rash, uveitis, and polyarthritis.
The RARA gene (retinoic acid receptor, alpha) is located on chromosome 17q21.
It can also be used to collect CSF for testing or to administer medication.
Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
The chemical 2,3,5 trimethylphenyl methylcarbamate is a brown crystalline solid that is non-corrosive and is used as an insecticide.
Glycocholic acid, or cholylglycine, is a crystalline bile acid involved in the emulsification of fats.
It can be used to test for disseminated intravascular coagulation.
Desmin Related Myopathy (DRM or Desminopathy) is a subgroup of the myofibrillar myopathy diseases and is the result of a mutation in the gene that codes for desmin which prevents it from forming protein filaments, instead forming aggregates of desmin and other proteins throughout the cell.
The original name in Latin American Spanish is Huachinango or Pargo.
Entecavir (INN) is an oral antiviral drug used in the treatment of hepatitis B infection.
The use of Burkholderia species for agricultural purposes (such as biodegradation, biocontrol and as plant-growth-promoting rhizobacteria) is subject to discussions because of possible pathogenic effects in immuno-compromised people (especially CF-sufferers), e.g., hospital acquired infections.
It is a secreted protein that performs many cellular functions, including the control of cell growth, cell proliferation, cell differentiation and apoptosis.
They are the second most common cause of lower respiratory tract infection in younger children.
MeV is highly contagious and is transmitted through infected secretions.
A phenothiazine with actions similar to CHLORPROMAZINE but with less antipsychotic activity.
Adalimumab has been associated with serious infections including the reactivation of tuberculosis and deep fungal infections as well as other rare side effects, including lymphoma, heart failure and demyelinating disease.
The disease caused by this virus is a form of cancer of blood cells called lymphocytes (a leukemia).
Treatment of Babesia infection is with antibiotics or exchange transfusion when the parasite load in the blood becomes very high.
Natural killer cells are lymphocytes that identify and lyse tumor cells and cells infected with microbes.
Sulfonamide antimicrobials, such as sulfamethazine (or sulfadimidine) and sulfathiazole, are synthetic antimicrobial agents that contain the sulfonamide group.
Huntingtin is a disease gene linked to Huntington's disease, a neurodegenerative disorder characterized by loss of striatal neurons.
Detection of congenital bleeding problems associated with a 2 Plasma Inibitor deficiency.
If untreated, this disorder can lead to delayed development, seizures, and coma.
It is used as a spice in many cuisines worldwide.
Most of the time, however, CETP does a homoexchange, trading a triglyceride for a triglyceride or a cholesteryl ester for a cholesteryl ester.
They contain a toxic compound, andromedotoxin (grayanotoxin), in the leaves and nectar, that is poisonous to humans and animals.
The MTHFR gene (methylenetetrahydrofolate reductase (NAD(P)H)) is located on chromosome 1p36.3.
Acadesine (INN) (5-aminoimidazole-4-carboxamide-1-beta-4-ribofuranoside, AICA-riboside) is an AMP-activated protein kinase activator which is used for the treatment of acute lymphoblastic leukemia and may have applications in treating other disorders such as diabetes
There are an estimated 1.5 million species of fungi, of which approximately 140,000 might qualify as Mushrooms, which can mean simply fungi with a large, above-ground fruiting body.
Amplification is determined based on the MYCN gene copy number and MYCN to centromere ratio (CEP2).
As of October 2014 there is no adenovirus vaccine for the general public, however an oral vaccine against types 4 and 7 was approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration in March 2011 for U.S. military personnel.
Since both T4 and T3 bind to these proteins, different assay formats have used either labeled T3 or T4 (the classic T3 resin uptake uses T3).
There are two main positions where the hydroxy are added: at the 11, and at the 17.
The other main forms of vitamin A, retinol, and a partially active form retinoic acid, may both be produced from retinal.
The MAN2B1 gene (mannosidase alpha class 2B member 1) is located on chromosome 19p13.2.
Because the calculated osmol gap can therefore be a conflation of both terms (depending on how it is derived), neither term (osmolal gap nor osmolar gap) may be semantically correct.
It is native to most of North America including all of southern Canada, nearly all of the continental United States, and the northern half of Mexico.
BiPAP® is the trade name of a portable ventilator manufactured by Respironics Corporation and is just one of many ventilators that can deliver bi-level positive airway pressure (BPAP).
Depending on which growth factor is bound, PDGFR homo- or heterodimerizes.
22q11.2 deletion syndrome, also known by many other names including DiGeorge syndrome, CATCH22, and velocardiofacial syndrome, is caused by the deletion of a small piece of chromosome 22.
Methylmercury (sometimes methyl mercury) is an organometallic cation with the formula +.
Biotin, (also known as vitamin B7, vitamin H, or coenzyme R), is a water soluble B-complex vitamin that plays an important role in helping the body metabolize proteins and process glucose.
Tadalafil is a PDE5 inhibitor, currently marketed in pill form for treating erectile dysfunction (ED) under the name Cialis; it has recently been approved for the treatment of pulmonary arterial hypertension, and has been used for other conditions.
Mutations in this gene are associated with infantile malignant osteopetrosis.
After the delayed onset, the allergic response is typical of an IgE mediated allergy (and most food allergies), including hives, angioedema, gastrointestinal upset, and possible anaphylaxis.
Equine herpesvirus 1 (EHV-1) is a virus of the family Herpesviridae that causes abortion in horses.
Submitter's test, the cobas® HPV Test, specifically identifies types HPV16 and HPV18 while concurrently detecting 12 other high risk types (31, 33, 35, 39, 45, 51, 52, 56, 58, 59, 66 and 68).
Lactase is often confused as an alternate name for Beta-galactosidase, but it is actually simply a sub-class of Beta-galactosidase.
It is particularly important in skeletal development and bone mineralization.
Prostaglandin E is a family of naturally occurring prostaglandins and may be used pharmaceutically in medicine.
Because peanut agglutinin specifically binds a particular carbohydrate sequence it finds use in a range of methods for cell biology and biochemistry.
Electron micrographs show long filaments, characteristic of the Filoviridae viral family.
Curvularia can be easily distinguished from Bipolaris and Drechslera spp.
This gene encodes vitamin K-dependent coagulation factor IX that circulates in the blood as an inactive zymogen.
Characteristics include a single nucleus containing a small central karyosome and peripheral chromatin that is finely and regularly beaded.
The physiology of M. tuberculosis is highly aerobic and requires high levels of oxygen.
There are no specific deficiency symptoms associated with cobalt, but as a component of B12, anemia can result from an inadequate intake.
The following information is included in the action plan: 1.
Decreased variability may also be an indicator of increased susceptibility to ventricular arrhythmias and also an independent risk factor for mortality after myocardial infarction and in patients with advanced CHF.
Brallobarbital is a barbiturate developed in the 1920s that has sedative and hypnotic properties.
They are often used for short-term relief of severe, disabling anxiety or insomnia.
The primary reservoir is wild animals such as rodents, which can shed leptospires throughout their lifetimes.
Acetyl fentanyl is a highly potent designer drug and a chemical relative of fentanyl.
It occurs in plasma as two main isoforms, apoB-48 and apoB-100: the former is synthesized exclusively in the gut and the latter in the liver.
The binding of CD154 (CD40L) on TH cells to CD40 activates antigen presenting cells and induces a variety of downstream effects.
They are primarily zoonotic viruses that affect cattle, horses and pigs.
Enzyme and fluorescent-based assays, which were preceded by the RAST test (Radio-AllergoSorbent Test), are performed to detect allergen-specific IgE in the patient's serum.
This duplicated region contains at least four genes and repetitive elements which make it prone to rearrangements and deletions.
The Red mulberry (M. rubra), closely related to the Mulberry or White mulberry tree (M. alba), is native to eastern North America, from southernmost Ontario and Vermont south to southern Florida and west to southeast South Dakota and central Texas.
Those individuals that lack the D antigen are considered to be Rh negative.
This pale yellow crystalline solid is well known as a precursor to trinitrotoluene (TNT) but is mainly used in the polymer industry.
The protein induces activation of the transcription factors NFAT, AP1, and NF-kappa-B and plays a crucial role in humoral immunity by interacting with a TNF ligand.
It functions primarily to inhibit members of a large family of metalloproteinases (MPs) and, as a result, is involved in many of the same pathophysiological processes as MPs, e.g. wound healing, ovulation, angiogenesis, and cancer cell metastasis.
Depleted uranium (238U) is used in kinetic energy penetrators and armor plating.
Fecal occult blood refers to the presence of blood in stools (feces).
The sciatic nerve and trigeminal nerve are the sites of latency.
It is also used in many manufacturing processes, as a pharmaceutical aid, and in several research applications.
The core compound, xanthine, is a product on the pathway of purine degradation and is converted to uric acid by the action of the xanthine oxidase enzyme.
The caliciviruses have been found in a number of organisms such as humans, cattle, pigs, chickens, reptiles, dolphins and amphibians.
One such report was made of a patient who experienced a hypersensitivity reaction to LT4 treatment.
In the formation of membrane attack complex, C7 is the next component to bind the C5b-6 complex forming a trimolecular complex C5b-7.
When food is ingested, the carbohydrates within the food are broken down into glucose molecules.
Most of the Barley now grown in the Western world is used either for animal fodder or, when malted, in the brewing and distilling industries.
3-methylglutaconyl-CoA hydratase catalyzes the conversion of 3-methylglutaconyl-CoA to 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl-CoA. Deficiency of 3-methylglutaconyl-CoA hydratase leads to elevated levels of 3-methylglutaconic acid, resulting in metabolic acidosis and aciduria.
Defects in this gene are the cause of plasminogen activator inhibitor-1 deficiency (PAI-1 deficiency), and high concentrations of the gene product are associated with thrombophilia.
It is also thought to be a potential therapeutic target for treating prostate cancer.
Infection by the Babesia species was first discovered in Croatia in 1957, but has proven to exist across the world in the last fifty years.
It was the first antibiotic to be manufactured synthetically on a large scale.
A decreasing effluent pressure with increasing transmembrane pressure (TMP) is an indicator of membrane clogging due to protein build-up on the blood side of the filter.
The site of the primary tumor determines which node(s) are sentinel for that tumor.
LV dyssynchrony is evaluated using cardiac gated SPECT and is based on time to end-systole (TES) measurements for each of the 17 LV segments.
The FARS2 gene (phenylalanyl-tRNA synthetase 2, mitochondrial) is located on chromosome 6p25.1.
FA is an autosomal recessive disease affecting approximately 1:50,000 Caucasians.
It is one of the most abundant fatty acids in the early human brain.
It is responsible for the degradation of incretins such as GLP-1.
The chemiluminescent detection reaction for CT signal has very rapid kinetics and has the "flasher" kinetic type.
C-banding is a technique that stains constitutive heterochromatin, which is present in centromeric and telomeric DNA, as well as specific other regions of certain chromosomes, such as the Y chromosome.
As of January 2020, infections with 2019-nCoV had been reported internationally due to confirmed cases in travelers from Wuhan.
Fraxinus pennsylvanica (Green Ash or Red Ash) is a species of ash native to eastern and central North America, from Nova Scotia west to southeastern Alberta and eastern Colorado, south to northern Florida, and southwest to eastern Texas.
The simplest borate ion is the trigonal planar, BO33−, although many others are known.
AnWj (Anton) is a high incidence red blood cell (RBC) antigen in the International Society of Blood Transfusion (ISBT) 901 series.
Results are used to determine the 2-HGA type: D-2-HGA, L-2-HGA or D,L-2-HGA.
Dimethylformamide is the organic compound with the formula (CH3)2NC(O)H. Commonly abbreviated DMF (though this acronym is sometimes used for dimethylfuran), this colorless liquid is miscible with water and the majority of organic liquids.
organic chemical compound which is a primary aromatic amine consisting of a benzene ring and an amino group
The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the fibroblast growth factor receptor (FGFR) family, where amino acid sequence is highly conserved between members and throughout evolution.
Nontypable H influenza is the main cause of invasive H influenzae infections in all age groups.
Isobutane, also known as methylpropane or 2-methylpropane, is an alkane, isomeric with butane.
Heptachlor production gradually ended in the 1980s, but remains in the soil and in hazardous waste sites.
Adverse effects of sorafenib include loss of appetite, skin rash, weight loss, joint pain, diarrhea, headaches and hypertension.
Proline is an amino acid that is the cyclized form of glutamic acid.
The occurrence of this and two other independent mutations in the PPT gene strongly suggests that defects in this gene cause INCL.
RNA editing in human and rat, and that this process is tissue-restricted and developmentally regulated.
If an intern or nurse-midwife delivers an infant under the supervision of an obstetrician who is present in the delivery room, the obstetrician is to be reported as the attendant.
Ginger may uncommonly induce symptoms of food allergy in sensitised individuals.
The NPHS2 gene (nephrosis 2, idiopathic, steroid-resistant (podocin)) is located on chromosome 1q25.2.
In the second model of MAC the patient has underlying lung disease such as chronic obstructive lung disease, old tuberculosis, bronchiectasis or cystic fibrosis.
Post 1945, DDT was broadly applied to crops as an insecticide.
The Hb S variant occurs primarily among people of African, Hispanic, and Mediterranean descent.
The structural proteins include capsid (C) and two glycoproteins, E2 and E1.
These molecules are particularly important in biochemistry, where this term refers to alpha-amino acids with the general formula H2NCHRCOOH, where R is an organic substituent.
Cephalothin is a first generation cephalosporin antibiotic used to treat infection caused by gram positive bacteria and some gram negative bacilli.
It is related to the mycotoxin T-2, but unlike T-2 has not been reported to have been used as a biological weapon.
The presence of antibodies directed against POL3RK (anti-Polymerase, DNA-directed) are thought to be associated with systemic sclerosis (SSc), a connective tissue disease that affects the skin and internal organs.
At a pH of 8.6, an electrophoretic band appears prior to albumin in a relative amount of < 2.5 % due to its greater rate of diffusion to the anode.
Aminoacyl-tRNA synthetases (ARS) are enzymes that link amino acids to tRNA molecules and therefore play a key role in protein synthesis.
Neutrophils, also called polymorphonuclear leukocytes (PMN or PML) because of the varying shapes of the nucleus, are by far the most abundant granulocytes.
It is the principal transmitter of most postganglionic sympathetic fibers and of the diffuse projection system in the brain arising from the locus ceruleus.
High levels of AST in the bloodstream could indicate hepatitis, drug damage to the liver, cirrhosis, alcoholism, or other liver disorders.
It produces a number of virulence factors including biofilm, adhesion to buccal epithelial and endothelial cells, the secretion of lytic enzymes, bud-to-hyphae transition, and phenotypic switching.
The major food sources of leucine are whole grains, milk and milk products, eggs, meat, soy beans, and leafy vegetables.
Medium chain fatty acids contain between 6 and 12 carbon chains.
More recently, S. chartarum has been linked with so-called sick building syndrome.
Triploid syndrome is caused by the presence of three copies of every chromosome rather than two, for a total of 69 chromosomes rather than the normal 46.
In addition, GM-CSF regulates the growth and function of dendritic cells that are key to inducing a primary T cell immune response.
Tumor cells are classified as being stable, having high instability (MSI-H), or having low instability (MSI-L) based on the number of markers demonstrating MSI.
AUDIT:The Alcohol Use Disorders Identification Test Guidelines for Use in PrimaryCare, Second Edition World Health Organization, Department of Mental Health and Substance Dependence
It is often used in combination with other drugs, most commonly isoniazid, rifampicin, ethambutol, and pyrazinamide.
The bulbous variety can be a weed of arable land.
The perinuclear ANCA (p-ANCA) targets the antigen myeloperoxidase (MPO) and is associated with idiopathic forms of systemic vasculitis and glomerulonephritis.
For patients who are on a mechanical ventilator, the amount of NO2 produced in the ventilator circuit is directly proportional to the concentration of NO and O2 and inversely proportional to minute ventilation and total gas flow.
HBoV, like other paroviruses, is a small, icosahedral, non-enveloped DNA virus.
Aprobarbital was never as widely used as more common barbiturate derivatives such as phenobarbital and is now rarely prescribed as it has been replaced by newer drugs with a better safety margin.
In certain cases the measurement of these metabolites in body fluids can be used to diagnose disorders associated with mitochondrial fatty acid beta-oxidation.
The juvenile and adult forms of glycogen storage disease II primarily affect skeletal muscle.
Screening for complement levels is done by quantitating antigenic levels of C3 and C4 and determining total hemolytic complement (CH50).
The fact that they are often cut into heroin preparations or sold as counterfeit pain killers with users unaware of their content makes them particularly prone to overdose.
The SLC12A6 gene (solute carrier family 12 member 6) is located on chromosome 15q13.
The pre-catheterization diagnosis represents the diagnosis for which the procedure is being performed.
Alnus rhombifolia (White Alder) is an alder native to western North America, from Washington east to western Montana and south to California, occurring at altitudes of 100-2400 m.
Norcodeine is one of several metabolites of codeine which is an opiate derived from the poppy plant Papaver somniferum.
Encephalitis can occur in affected animals, leading to ataxia, paralysis, and death.
Dihydroorotic acid, orotic acid and other de novo metabolites in urine are useful in investigating inborn errors of the pyrimidine metabolism or urea cycle defects.
it is used more as a topical treatment, and is the active ingredient in the cold sore medications Denavir, Vectavir and Fenistil.
The distance between the incisal edges of the upper and lower central incisors measured along the occlusal plane
Unlike B. burgdorferi however, B. mayonii appears to be associated with nausea and vomiting, diffuse rashes, and a higher concentration of bacteria in the blood.
Later symptoms include giddiness, tightness in the chest, blurred vision, tearing, hearing issues, loss of muscle coordination, slurred speech, mental confusion, breathing difficulty, increased blood pressure, convulsions, and coma.
The incubation period usually lasts between 10-12 days and during that time there are no symptoms.
The movement of the cilia are responsible for the movement of mucus.
Dimethoate is rapidly broken down in the environment and in sewage treatment plants.
Cerium (Ce) is a rare metal that combines with oxygen to form CeO2 nanoparticles (nanoceria).
A glucose tolerance test is a medical test in which glucose is given and blood samples taken afterward to determine how quickly it is cleared from the blood.
Neurofilaments comprise the axoskeleton and they functionally maintain the neuronal caliber.
The STK11 gene (serine/threonine kinase 11) is located on chromosome 19p13.3.
Environment Western ragweed occurs on plains, dry fields, meadows and prairies, but also along roadsides and in waste places.
Carcinoid tumors are rare, slow-growing tumors usually found in the lining of the digestive tract or in the lungs.
Common sites for infection include sinuses, lungs, skin, soft tissue, central nervous system, and bones.
For example, beta 2 combines with the alpha L chain to form the integrin LFA-1, and combines with the alpha M chain to form the integrin Mac-1.
Cyclic guanosine monophosphate (cGMP) is a cyclic nucleotide derived from guanosine triphosphate (GTP).
von Willebrand collagen binding assay is used to distinguish the subtype (1, 2 or 3) of von Willebrand disorders, not to establish the presence of the disorder.
It is thought to possess central nervous system effects similar to other known Schedule IV benzodiazepines and is used as an illicit drug.
Infant botulism occurs in a small number of susceptible infants each year who become infected C. botulinum bacteria grow in their intestinal tract.
The addition of excess phospholipid overwhelms the lupus anticoagulants and corrects the clotting time.
It is an essential amino acid, and the human nutritional requirement is 1€"1.5 g daily.
The NPC1 gene (Niemann-Pick disease, type C1) is located on chromosome 18q11.2.
Mares can transmit the disease to their foals via the placenta.
In healthy patients, tetrahydrobiopterin (BH4) is converted to 4a-hydroxy-BH4 with a concomitant conversion of phenylalanine to tyrosine, and BH4 is subsequently regenerated via a pathway that includes pterin-4a-carbinolamine dehydratase (PCD), which is encoded by the PCBD gene.
A component of this preinitiation complex is a 1.2 MDa protein aggregate called Mediator.
A. vaginae is known to be resistant to several antimicrobial treatments, including metronidazole and clindamycin.
Although differing in substrate specificity, subcellular localization, and tissue distribution, all isozymes of this family convert free long-chain fatty acids into fatty acyl-CoA esters, and thereby play a key role in lipid biosynthesis and fatty acid degradation.
The E wave deceleration time is the time between the E wave peak velocity and its return to baseline in mid-diastole before the start of the A wave.
Native Der p 2 (Siemens allergen A316) is a 15kD protein purified from Dermatophagoides pteronyssinus and is commonly associated with sensitization to house dust mites (HDM).
PCV3 is a circovirus species that is circulating in many countries including the United States, China, South Korea and Poland.
Natalizumab has proven effective in treating the symptoms of both diseases, preventing relapse, vision loss, cognitive decline and significantly improving quality of life in people with multiple sclerosis, as well as increasing rates of remission and preventing relapse in Crohn's disease.
Transmission of the classical scrapie agent is not completely understood but apparently healthy sheep infected with the agent can transmit disease.
The species is also called Boston mackerel, or just mackerel.
XDR-TB have worse disease symptoms and are resistant to isoniazid, rifampicin, any one of the fluoroquinolones, and any one of the three injectable second-line drugs amikacin, kanamycin, and capreomycin.
It is one of three estrogens which also include estriol and estradiol.
Group B - All other tumors (either larger than 3 mm or small but close to the optic disc or foveola) that are confined to the retina.
Arylsulfatase C, also known as steroid sulfatase or steryl-sulfatase, primarily functions to convert steroid precursors to estrogen during pregnancy.
Its major role is to neutralize heparin-like molecules on the endothelial surface of blood vessels, thereby inhibiting local antithrombin III activity and promoting coagulation.
It has been found to have antioxidant and anti-inflammatory properties.
The bark is white, often with black diamond-shaped marks or larger patches at the base.
Its unesterified metabolite difenoxin has similar properties and is used similarly.
FGF-19 is created after every meal and plays a role in increasing glucose tolerance and insulin sensitivity and decreasing gluconeogenesis.
The specificity of the gap junction is determined by which connexin proteins comprise the hemichannel.
Non-cerebellar tissue in the central, peripheral and autonomic nervous systems may also be involved.
Two alternatively spliced transcript variants of this gene encoding distinct isoforms have been reported.
In the other cases, patients inherited one or two copies from an affected parent.
Dihydrotestosterone (DHT) (Full name: 5Dihydrotestosterone, abbreviating to 5DHT; INN:androstanolone) is a biologically active metabolite of testosterone.
Due to safety concerns related to drug dependence and overdose and new safer psychoactive medications barbiturate use sharply declined in the 1950s.
It is also used in the treatment of polycystic ovary syndrome, and has been investigated for other diseases where insulin resistance may be an important factor.
It is an important precursor to dyes such as Crystal violet.
The Peach (Prunus persica) is a tree native to China that bears a juicy fruit of the same name.
Primidone (2-desoxyphenobarbitone, brand name Mysoline®) is an antiepileptic drug used to treat complex partial and generalized tonic-clonic seizures.
Pentadecanoic acid constitutes 1.05% of milk fat and 0.43% of ruminant meat fat.
Most bacterial pneumonia occurring after the neonatal period is caused by S. pneumoniae.
Wild boars are a suspected reservoir of infection of domestic swine.
Chronic exposure to phorate has resulted in slow thinking, memory defects, irritability, delayed reaction time, and anxiety.
B. bronchiseptica rarely infects healthy humans though disease in immunocompromised patients has been reported.
Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms.
Direct or indirect contact with bird (Budgerigar, Budgie, Parakeet) allergens frequently causes sensitization.
Mice carrying only one functional copy of igf1r are normal, but exhibit a ~15% decrease in body mass.
Food handling workers are particularly at risk if they are mold allergic.
Alpha (A) glucosidase is an enzyme found in tissue fibroblasts that is useful for delineatig the reason for muscle wasting and ruling out Pompe's disease.
Babesia divergens-like MO-1 strain is a parasite that invades human red blood cells and is transmitted by the Ixodid tick.
It is used in the treatment of respiratory tract infections, skin and skin structure, bone and joint, urinary tract, gynecologic as well as septicemia, and meningitis.
Genomic mutations may occur, resulting in resistance to specific antiretroviral drugs.
Sheep and goats are typically infected as young lambs or kids, though adult sheep and goats can become infected.
The most important countries of production are China, Turkey, Japan, Egypt and Syria.
The disease is characterized by congestion, edema, generalized lymphadenopathy and hemorrhagic necrosis and is sometimes fatal.
Recent findings also reveal that RNase P has a new function.
S. saprophyticus, another coagulase-negative species that is part of the normal vaginal flora, is predominantly found in genitourinary tract infections in sexually-active young women.
A synthetic fluoroquinolone (FLUOROQUINOLONES) antibacterial agent that inhibits the supercoiling activity of bacterial DNA GYRASE, halting DNA REPLICATION.
They modulate bile flow and lipid secretion, are essential for the absorption of dietary fats and vitamins, and have been implicated in the regulation of all the key enzymes involved in cholesterol homeostasis.
Doctors may use this four-quadrant technique or the "Single Deepest Pocket" technique to determine the AFI.
Methyl diethanolamine is widely used as a sweating agent or decarbonizer in chemical, oil refinery, syngas production and natural gas.
The measurement of serum ferritin is now considered to be an accurate, quantitative, and convenient method of assessing total body iron stores.
Systemic lupus erythematosus is associated with increased autoantibody titers against calreticulin but calreticulin is not a Ro/SS-A antigen.
The primary mechanism of the 4-hydroxycoumarin drugs is the inhibition of vitamin K epoxide reductase.
It also plays a role in ATP-mediated calcium sequestration in the lumen of the endoplasmic reticulum.
To reflect the possible activities in which the decedent was engaged at the time of death.
Oxalate may be consumed in certain foods, or produced within the body by the kidney, liver, epithelial, or apocrine cells.
It is used in some countries as a stimulant laxative, under the generic names dantron or chrysazin.
It is not certain whether Nutmeg and Mace became known in Europe only in the 11th century AD or were known to the Romans.
L -phenylalanine can also be converted into L -tyrosine, another one of the twenty protein-forming amino acids.
All of these various properties also affect how sensitive the aPTT is at detecting clotting factor deficiencies, either functional or quantitative.
Damage or disease to the kidneys can lead to dangerous fluctuations of sodium.
Propan-1-ol is a primary alcohol with the molecular formula of C3H8O.
People with genetic variants or acquired deficiencies of plasma cholinesterase that result in lower enzymatic activity can have a very difficult time recovering from surgery.
The SLC40A1 gene (solute carrier family 40 (iron-regulated transporter), member 1) is located on chromosome 2q32.
Bordetella is a genus of small (0.2 - 0.7 µm), Gram-negative coccobacilli of the phylum proteobacteria.
Hake is one of the most frequently consumed fish in Spain, and is closely related to cod.
Like other European elms, it has little innate resistance to Dutch elm disease, but is eschewed by the vector bark beetles and only rarely becomes infected.
When used as a test fuel component in anti-knock test engines, a 100% heptane fuel is the zero point of the octane rating scale (the 100 point is a 100% iso-octane).
The amount dispensed is the total amount of medication actually dispensed by the pharmacy.
Normal visual acuity is commonly referred to as 20/20 vision and the metric equivalent is 6/6 vision.
The b2a2 (e13a2) and b3a2 (e14a2) fused transcripts, also known as major break points, produce a 210-kDa protein (p210).
The central apnea index (CAI) is calculated as the number of central apnea events per hour of sleep.
Most Fox species belong to the Red Fox group, genus Vulpes.
The Lyon hypothesis states that in cells with multiple X chromosomes, all but one are inactivated during mammalian embryogenesis.
Clarithromycin is a macrolide antibiotic used to treat pharyngitis, tonsillitis, acute maxillary sinusitis, acute bacterial exacerbation of chronic bronchitis, pneumonia (especially atypical pneumonias associated with Chlamydia pneumoniae or TWAR), skin and skin structure infections, and, in HIV and AIDS patients to prevent, and to treat, disseminated Mycobacterium avium complex or MAC.
The AXIN2 gene has been mapped to 17q23-q24, a region that shows frequent loss of heterozygosity in breast cancer, neuroblastoma, and other tumors.
People with PKU need to follow a diet that significantly limits phenylalanine.
The intima is mainly composed of two cell types, specialized macrophage-like synovial cells and fibroblast-like synoviocytes (FLS), which maintain the internal joint homeostasis.
It also binds the malaria parasite Plasmodium vivax, and RBCs that lack the Duffy Fy^a and Fy^b antigens are resistant to invasion.
Mutations in this gene cause lymphoproliferative syndrome X-linked type 1 or Duncan disease, a rare immunodeficiency characterized by extreme susceptibility to infection with Epstein-Barr virus, with symptoms including severe mononucleosis and malignant lymphoma.
An estimated fetal weight determined by intra-uterine ultrasound that is below the 10th percentile is considered to be growth-restricted (IUGR).
Helicobacter pylori (H.pylori) are gram-negative bacterium usually found in the stomach.
Fluspirilene (Redeptin, Imap, R6218) is a long-acting diphenylbutylpiperidine antipsychotic drug, used for the treatment of schizophrenia.
In certain cases the measurement of these metabolites in body fluids can be used to diagnose disorders associated with mitochondrial fatty acid beta-oxidation.
Food poisoning caused by Campylobacter species can be severely debilitating, but is rarely life-threatening.
The GAA gene (glucosidase, alpha; acid) is located on chromosome 17q25.2-q25.3.
Examples of beta globulins include: beta 2-microglobulin, plasminogen, angiostatins, properdin, sex hormone-binding globulin, transferrin.
The protein recognizes mannose and N-acetylglucosamine on many microorganisms, and is capable of activating the classical complement pathway.
It is enriched in the liver, egg yolks, and the fat component of dairy products.
Remarks, interpretations, or impressions added to manual differential results by a laboratorian or pathologist.
Urtica dioica is also known as stinging nettle or common nettle.
Paraldehyde is a Schedule IV depressant used most frequently in a hospital setting to treat delirium tremers associated with alcohol withdrawl.
The RPS6KA3 gene (ribosomal protein S6 kinase, 90kDa, polypeptide 3) is located on chromosome Xp22.2-p22.1.
The heparin:PF4 complex is the immunogen in heparin-induced thrombocytopenia, an idiosyncratic autoimmune reaction that sometimes occurs following the injection of heparin.
Erythromycyclamine is a semisynthetic derivative of erythromycin in which the 9-ketogroup of the erythronolide ring has been converted to an amino group.
Disorders of purine metabolism occur at any age and involve various organ systems.
The California walnut, also known as the California Black Walnut and the Southern California Black Walnut with a latin name of Juglans californica.
Dihydropyrimidine dehydrogenase (DPD, encoded by the DPYD gene;) is the rate-limiting enzyme for fluoropyrimidine metabolism and is therefore responsible for the detoxification of these types of drugs.
To prevent contracting MRSA, maintain good personal hygiene by frequently hand washing and bathing often, especially after exercise.
Veterinary Medicine: Porcine cytomegalovirus (PCMV) is a subgroup of the herpesviruses that causes inclusion body rhinitis (IBR).
Upon activation by IL-4, Th2 cells subsequently produce additional IL-4.
CA 15-3 is encoded by the MUC1 gene and is a transmembrane glycoprotein.
Species of Chlamydophila include: Chlamydophila pneumoniae, Chlamydophila pecorum, Chlamydophila felis, Chlamydophila psittaci, Chlamydophila abortus, Chlamydophila caviae
The developing embryo produces aldolase A, which is produced in even greater amounts in adult muscle where it can be as much as 5% of total cellular protein.
Over time, samples assume a yellow color due to oxidation.
In the context of anesthesia, fresh gas is the combination of all of the gases and anesthetic agents coming as a single stream from the gas delivery system.
Although frequently thought to be a culture contaminant, it has been implicated in cases of endocarditis, endopthalmitis, intravascular infections, central nervous system infections and arthritis.
This gene produces a mitochondrial methionyl-tRNA synthetase protein that is encoded by the nuclear genome and imported to the mitochondrion.
This protein is localized to the trans Golgi network, where it is predicted to supply copper to copper-dependent enzymes in the secretory pathway.
Tryptophan is an amino acid and essential in human nutrition.
Hydroxyproline is a hydrophilic amino acid with uncharged polar groups and is a major component of collagen.
When PKN is activated, it phosphorylates tau, resulting in disruption of microtubule organization Taniguchi et al., 2001.
5-hydroxyindoleacetate (5HIAA) is a metabolite of serotonin and is excreted in the urine.
Reticulocytes appear slightly bluer than other RBC when stained with Romanowsky stain.
An ocular motility exam is an examination of the movements of the eyes.
The protein encoded by this gene is a plasma protease inhibitor and a member of the serpin superfamily.
Its effects in humans mainly stem from its metabolic conversion to morphine.
Structurally, this macrocyclic compound contains a 14-membered lactone ring with ten asymmetric centers and two sugars (L-cladinose and D-desoamine), making it a difficult to synthesize commercially.
Invertebrate organisms that live on or in another organism (the host), and benefit at the expense of the other.
Mutations in this gene are associated with Crouzon syndrome, Pfeiffer syndrome, Craniosynostosis, Apert syndrome, Jackson-Weiss syndrome, Beare-Stevenson cutis gyrata syndrome, Saethre-Chotzen syndrome, and syndromic craniosynostosis.
Like other carbamates, it reversibly inhibits acetylcholinesterase, an enzyme required for normal transmission of nerve impulses.
Skin-sensitivity, anaphylaxis and other symptoms related to food allergy have been reported.
This process is required for the appropriate folding of most proteins.
It is native to much of northern Mexico and the southwestern United States as far east as Kansas and Oklahoma.
Oyster has been reported as both an ingested and occupational allergen.
Prolymphocytes are the form between lymphoblasts and lymphocytes, with a large spectrum of intermediates.
Although primarily transmitted to horses by ticks, this bloodborne disease has been spread mechanically from animal to animal by contaminated needles.
The HYAL1 gene (hyaluronoglucosaminidase 1) is located on chromosome 3p21.31.
It induces smooth MUSCLE CONTRACTION, and HISTAMINE RELEASE from MAST CELLS and LEUKOCYTES.
They are class I, non-enveloped, icosahedral viruses that are 74-80 nm in diameter, having a double stranded DNA genome of approximately 26-45 kilo-base pairs (kbp) and a guanine/cytosine content of 53-59%.
The half-life of PTH (1-84) is 2-4 minutes, after which it is degraded into a carboxyl (C)- or amino (N)-terminal fragment.
Evidence suggests that increased kynurenine production may precipitate depressive symptoms associated with interferon treatment for hepatitis C. Cognitive deficits in schizophrenia are associated with imbalances in the enzymes that break down kynurenine.
Plasma lathosterol levels are significantly elevated in patients with bile acid malabsorption .
Given the shortcomings of current therapies, the administration of mAbs is being investigated.
A muscarinic antagonist used to treat drug-induced parkinsonism and to relieve pain from muscle spasm.
The family includes Equine arteritis virus (EAV), porcine reproductive and respiratory syndrome virus (PRRSV), lactate dehydrogenase elevating virus (LDV) of mice and simian haemorrhagic fever virus (SHFV).
Patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) with disease progression treated with ibrutinib has been attributed to histologic transformation or acquired mutations in BTK and PLCG2 genes.
House Rats comprise two species, Rattus norvegicus, the Brown or Norway Rat, and Rattus Rattus, the Black or Alexandrine Rat.
Its mode of action depends upon blocking bacterial DNA replication by binding itself to an enzyme called DNA gyrase.
Adult doses for the treatment of aplastic anemia are usually in a range of 1-3 mg/kg per day.
APOB encodes apolipoprotein B, a primary protein component of low-density lipoprotein (LDL), very low-density lipoprotein (VLDL) and chylomicrons.
A vitamin-K dependent zymogen present in the blood, which, upon activation by thrombin and thrombomodulin exerts anticoagulant properties by inactivating factors Va and VIIIa at the rate-limiting steps of thrombin formation.
Fascin is spaced at 11 nanometre intervals along the filament.
Alpha hydroxyetizolam is a benzodiazepine and is an active metabolite of etizolam.
Human glucuronidase is a lysosomal glycosidase, and hydrolyzes the glucuronide groups from proteins.
The protein functions in cap-independent translation of ornithine decarboxylase mRNA, and may also function in sterol-mediated transcriptional regulation.
Mutations in this gene, as well as in other NADPH oxidase subunits, can result in chronic granulomatous disease, a disease that causes recurrent infections by catalase-positive organisms.
Mutations in this gene cause Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease type 2A2, and hereditary motor and sensory neuropathy VI, which are both disorders of the peripheral nervous system.
The less severe symptoms of infection include hemolytic anemia, jaundice, shortness of breath, hemoglobinuria, which occur during parasitic multiplication.
Glycophorin A (MNS blood group), also known as GYPA, is a human gene.
Significantly, members of the calycin protein family can cause IgE antibody responses by inhalation or ingestion and are associated with asthma and food hypersensitivity.
The Elder tree is native to south-eastern Canada and most of the United States except for the Great Basin and the Pacific Northwest, and is found in Britain, Europe, Iraq and Turkey.
In the mammalian central nervous system, phenethylamine is believed to function as a neuromodulator or neurotransmitter.
An appropriate reference standard of protein intake necessary for an individual patient.
The CHA-Db also includes items on communication systems, orientation and mobility, and use of interpreters and intervenors.
The risk of arterial thrombosis remains uncertain, but 2% of individuals developed arterial thrombosis in one study.
Naltrexone is an opioid receptor antagonist used primarily in the management of alcohol dependence and opioid dependence.
Along with some other diuretics, furosemide is also included on the World Anti-Doping Agency 's banned drug list due to its alleged use as a masking agent for other drugs.
Howell-Jolly bodies are histopathological findings of basophilic nuclear remnants (clusters of DNA) in circulating erythrocytes.
The allergic manifestations may present as Bird Fancier's Asthma and as so-called Bird-Egg Syndrome with symptoms such as rhinitis, urticaria and angioedema, and also gastro-intestinal problems.
beta-alanine is not used in the biosynthesis of any major proteins or enzymes.
The sum of fractions, VLDL 1,2 is the large, buoyant fraction and VLDL3 is the small remnant.
This gene encodes a protein that is thought to be involved in centrosomal or ciliary functions.
Brachyspira hampsonii is a strongly beta-hemolytic gram negative spirochete that is provisionally classified as a species of Brachyspira and, like other Brachyspira species, causes swine dysentery (SD).
A given chain may combine with multiple partners resulting in different integrins.
Its gene product is believed to be a tumor suppressor and is able to stimulate specific GTPases.
Its fiber, seed, and oil have many commercial uses including in the production of textiles, printing ink, paints, varnishes, baking products and animal feed.
The "envelope E gene" and the "envelope M gene" correspond to the viral RNA regions that encode the E protein and the M protein.
A deletion on the 7q11.23 chromosomal region is found in approximately 90-95% of patients with classical Williams-Beuren Syndrome (WBS).
The measurement length is from wrist the to the metacarpalphalangeal joint of the 3rd digit of the hand.
An ocular alignment exam is examination of the two eyes to determine if they are fixated on the same point in space, or whether there is a deviation of one or both eyes.
It also infects humans, non-human primates, dogs, several species of birds, and mice, with mice being a probable reservoir of infection for swine.
There are 6 retinal layers viewable with OCT: the nerve fiber layer (NFL), the inner plexiform layer and ganglion cell layer (IPL+GCL), the inner nuclear layer (INL), the outer plexiform layer (OPL), the outer nuclear layer and photoreceptor inner segments (ONL+PIS), and photoreceptor outer segments (POS).
The BHD gene (folliculin) gene is located on chromosome 17p11.2.
T. pallidum pallidum is a motile spirochaete that is generally acquired by sexual contact, entering the host via breaches in squamous or columnar epithelium.
Lactoferrin is found in milk and many mucosal secretions such as tears and saliva.
It is similar to, but less severe than sickle cell anemia.
Methapyrilene is an antihistamine and anticholinergic of the pyridine chemical class which was developed in the early 1950s.
Patients that experience recurrent severe herpes infections, primary or secondary hemophagocytic lymphohistiocytosis, and suspected or known monogenic defects or patients who have received immune reconstitution post hematopoietic cell transplantation may lack the normal number or functionality of NK cells.
The leaves are oblong or lance-shaped, tapering at the base into a slender stalk.
EAST inhibition and immunoblot inhibition demonstrated that cross-reactions between Mango fruits, Mugwort pollen, Birch pollen, Celery, and Carrot are based on allergens related to Bet v 1 and Art v 1, the major allergens of Birch and Mugwort pollen, respectively (21).
This enzyme belongs to the family of transferases, specifically those transferring phosphorus-containing groups (phosphotransferases) with an alcohol group as acceptor.
Harmening D, Clahoun L, Polesky H. Modern Blood Banking and Transfusion Practices (2nd Ed.)
It occasionally causes postpartum bacteremia and bacteremia following a transurethral resection of the prostate.
This is significant because nations are currently stockpiling oseltamivir in anticipation of an influenza pandemic, and the drug is in short supply.
Apelin acts as a mediator of the cardiovascular control, including for blood pressure and blood flow.
Furosemide is incompletely absorbed in the intestine (40%), and there is substantial inter- and intraindividual differences in bioavailability (range 10-90%).
An immunoblastic lymphocyte is a lymphocyte that has been activated by an antigen, which will further undergo clonal expansion to increase the number of lymphocytes capable of binding to that antigen.
Diltiazem is a non-DHP member of the group of drugs known as benzothiazepines, which are a class of calcium channel blockers, used in the treatment of hypertension, angina pectoris, and some types of arrhythmia.
N-acetyl-L-aspartate (NAA) normally occurs in high concentrations in the brain tissue, and its function is not well-understood.
For example, abdominal perimeter measurements are an effective predictor of discordant twins where the weight difference between the two exceeds 15%.
The full transporter encoded by this gene may be involved in development of resistance to xenobiotics and engulfment during programmed cell death.
The straight line distance between Condylion and Anterior Nasal Spine
Except for a few feral populations, and one extremely endangered wild one (Przewalski's Horse), Horses are domesticated.
They are made up of 18-22 carbon atoms with the first double bond at the third carbon from the methyl end of the fatty acid structure.
A sulfur containing essential amino acid that is important in many body functions.
Whether antimony can cause cancer or birth defects, or affect reproduction in humans is not known.
Measurement of DOPAC in conjunction with dopamine can be used to examine dopamine turnover and MAO activity.
It is one of the best grasses for cultivating in shady areas.
It is estimated that Turkeys have approximately 3500 feathers at maturity
GlycA was first seen as a signal on a nuclear magnetic resonance spectrum for lipoprotein particle analysis.
It is used to treat insomnia, and to produce sleepiness or drowsiness and to relieve anxiety before or during surgery or other procedures and in combination with analgetics also during labor.
This dephosphorylation reaction releases energy, which the enzyme (in most cases) harnesses to drive other chemical reactions that would not otherwise occur.
It is important in hemoglobin synthesis, the regulation of blood sugar and in maintaining energy levels.
This gene contains a GCG trinucleotide repeat at the 5' end of the coding region, and expansion of this repeat from the normal 6 copies to 8-13 copies leads to autosomal dominant oculopharyngeal muscular dystrophy (OPMD) disease.
It is moderately insoluble, and therefore accumulates in the red blood cells.
BV infections are complex and polymicrobial, involving multiple species of bacteria, including Megasphaera species Type 1 (Mega1), Atopobium vaginae, and Bacterial Vaginosis Associated Bacterium 2 (BVAB2), which can grow in excess and cause vaginal irritation.
More IgA is produced in mucosal linings than all other immunoglobulins (IgG,IgM,IgE), combined; between 3 and 5g are secreted into the intestinal lumen each day.
There are approximately 10 to 14 copies of this gene including the pseudogenes scattered across the human genome, among which the one located on chromosome 9 appears to be the only functional gene for argininosuccinate synthetase.
Aspergillus amstelodami is a species of saprophytic mold frequently encountered in tropical and subtropical regions.
Like HIV, EIA can be transmitted through blood, saliva, milk, and body secretions.
MART-1 / Melan-A is a putative 18 kDa transmembrane protein consisting of 118 amino acids.
Gabapentin is used to treat peripheral and central neuropathic pain in adults.
With HGE, also known as Human Granulocytic Anaplasmosis (HGA), neutrophils become infected by Anaplasma phagocytophilum and clusters of small bacteria may be seen within the neutrophils on blood smears during the terminal phases of the infection.
The term SMEDI usually indicates porcine enterovirus, but it also can indicate porcine parvovirus, which is a more important cause of the syndrome.
It can also be eaten whole, either as boiled rye berries, or by being rolled, similar to rolled oats.
Synonyms are: Chamomilla chamomilla, Chamomilla recutita (correct name according to the Flora Europaea), Matricaria chamomilla, and Matricaria suaveolens.
Gastrointestinal, a rare but also fatal (causes death to 25%) type, results from ingestion of spores.
Clozapine is a drug used for the treatment of schizophrenia.
Goat's cheese, or chèvre, is cheese made from goat's milk.
Basophils can therefore be referred to polymorphonuclear basophil (PMB), eosinophils as polymorphonuclear eosinophils (PME), in addition to neutrophils (polymorphonuclear neutrophil, PMN).
They have a prolonged life span, remaining in the fluid up to four months.
CD36 binds many ligands including collagen, thrombospondin, erythrocytes parasitized with Plasmodium falciparum, oxidized low density lipoprotein, native lipoproteins, oxidized phospholipids, and long-chain fatty acids.
It is synthesized as a catalytically-inactive enzyme which is activated and auto-proteolyzed upon acidification.
Mitosis is the process by which a eukaryotic cell nucleus divides in two, and is followed by division of the parent cell into two daughter cells.
Meprobamate is an anti-anxiety medication often used as a sedative and muscle relaxant.
It is often a mild illness, with symptoms of sore throat, low-grade fever, and a rash on the body.
Original classification was based on serology and has since been confirmed by DNA sequencing.
The Ambler classification for carbapenemases utilizes four molecular classes - A, B, C and D. The GES-type enzymes identified in Enterobacteriaceae, Klebsiella pneumoniae and Psudomonas aeruginosa are plasmid encoded and included in class A. Studies have shown dissemination of organisms with the GES-type gene in Kuwait, North Africa and Turkey.
PD-L1 is the major ligand for the programmed cell death-1 (PD-1) receptor, which is present on the surface of T, B and NK cells and is part of the B7-CD28 superfamily.
Cryoglobulins can be transient and without clinical implications or they can be a marker of significant disease.
The main allergens in whole eggs are found in the egg white, but egg yolk also contains specific IgE-binding allergens.
This distinction was introduced by the Dane Emil Christian Hansen.
first by the hydration of the amino acid tyrosine to DOPA by tyrosine hydroxylase and then by the decarboxylation of DOPA by aromatic-L-amino-acid decarboxylase.
Kynurenic acid acts in the brain as a glycine-site NMDAr antagonist, key in glutamatergic neurotransmission system, which is thought to be involved in the pathophysiology and pathogenesis of schizophrenia.
Fentanyl is a key pain medication that is metabolized by CYP3A4/3A5.
This gene lies adjacent to the tumor suppressor gene CDKN2A in a region that is frequently mutated and deleted in a wide variety of tumors.
In mammals, arginine is classified as a conditionally essential amino acid, depending on the developmental stage and health status of the individuals.
Gangliosides are a family of molecules that are present throughout the body but especially prevalent in cells of the nervous system.
This is an emerging infection that was reported for the first time in humans in 1965.
Levorphanol is an opioid medication used to treat severe pain.
Associated with severe cartilage degradation & increased risk for continued tissue destruction.
If a person has blood group O, the H antigen remains unmodified.
Paroxetine or paroxetine hydrochloride is a selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor (SSRI) antidepressant.
Cobalamins, or reduced levels of vitamin B12 may indicate the presence of vitamin dependent anemia.
Previously thought to be a member of the genus Streptococcus, it is now recognized as a separate genus.
Chloroethane or monochloroethane, commonly known by its old name ethyl chloride, is a chemical compound with chemical formula C2H5Cl, once widely used in producing tetra-ethyl lead, a gasoline additive.
If terbufos is absorbed through the skin into the bloodstream, the inhibition of cholinesterase may occur leading to chest tightness, wheezing, blurred vision, fatigue, headache, slurred speech, and confusion.
Maize/corn kernels grow on long "ears" at the leaf axils of this unusual plant.
It constitutes an essential part of many enzymes, and plays an important role in protein synthesis and in cell division.
Several Legionella species, especially L. pneumophila, cause legionellosis (Legionnaires' disease).
Medically, drugs are used to diagnose, cure,mitigate, treat, or prevent disease or illness.
When discussing visual acuity, such as 20/40, the numerator is the testing distance.
In developed countries, however, it has fallen out of favor because of a rare side effect, aplastic anemia, which is uniformly fatal.
This gene encodes the glycogen debrancher enzyme which is involved in glycogen degradation.
Bromazepam (marketed under brand names Calmepam, Compendium, Creosedin, Durazanil, Lectopam, Lexaurin, Lexomil, Lexotan, Lexotanil, Normoc, Somalium) is a drug which is a benzodiazepine derivative.
White-faced hornets live in large colonies of 50 to 2000 individuals.
Chronic myelogenous leukemia (CML), acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL), and acute myeloid leukemia (AML) are associated with the fusion of the breakpoint cluster gene (BCR) at chromosome 22q11 to the Abelson gene (ABL1) at chromosome 9q23.
Glutathione peroxidase oxidizes GSH to glutathione disulfide (GSSG) with concomitant formation of H20 from H2O2.
Therefore the urinary and plasma concentrations of sodium must be compared to get an accurate picture of renal clearance.
The Dandelion is a perennial weed that originated in Europe and Asia and is now naturalised throughout the world.
The reaction can, but not often, be fatal, and the individual must immediately go to the emergency room.
The oppA1 gene is a member of a family of three genes; oppA-1, oppA-2, and oppA-3, that encode predicted peptide-binding proteins.
Studies with human pharmacology and genetics, genetically manipulated rodents, and other animal models and randomized trials indicate that this is due to suppression of COX-2-dependent cardioprotective prostaglandins, prostacyclin in particular NSAID (non-specific inhibitor of COX-2)
Virulence factors include resistance to phagocytosis as well as endothelial invasion, polysaccharide capsule, and biofilm production.
It is is a flammable liquid with a fruity smell.
Inclusion bodies are nuclear or cytoplasmic aggregates of stainable substances, usually proteins.
The highest amount of Vanillic acid in plants known so far is found in the root of Angelica sinensis, a herb indigenous to China, which is traditionally used in Traditional Chinese medicine.
Missense, nonsense, and frameshift mutations in this enzyme lead to ornithine transcarbamylase deficiency, which causes hyperammonemia.
This protein belongs to the FET family of RNA-binding proteins which have been implicated in cellular processes that include regulation of gene expression, maintenance of genomic integrity and mRNA/microRNA processing.
These compounds have recently been detected in urine specimens from athletes, resulting in temporary or permanent suspension from amateur and/or professional competition. ,
Ongoing studies are investigating the utility of the antibodies being used as biomarkers for lung cancer in high risk asymptomatic patients.
A siderocyte is red blood cell with granular inclusion bodies that contain enough ferric iron to give a positive Prussian-blue reaction.
UDP-glucuronosyltransferase 1-1 also known as UGT-1A is an enzyme that in humans is encoded by the UGT1A1 gene.
These growth factors are mitogens for cells of mesenchymal origin.
RNA polymerase I (also called Pol I) is, in eukaryotes, the only enzyme that transcribes ribosomal RNA (excluding 5S rRNA, which is synthesized by RNA Polymerase III), a type of RNA that accounts for over 50% of the total RNA synthesized in a cell.
Gene mutation analysis for RREB1, CDKN2A, and D8Z2 genes aid in the differentiation of benign from malignant melanocytic lesions.
Niobium alloyed with tin and titanium, are widely used in the superconducting magnets of MRI scanners and, alloyed with titanium, in medical implants.
Each laminin chain is a multidomain protein encoded by a distinct gene.
In the thyroid, follicular and parafollicular cells are also positive for TTF-1.
The chloride ion is formed when the element chlorine picks up one electron to form an anion negatively-charged ion Cl−. The salts of hydrochloric acid contain chloride ions and can also be called chlorides.
The Asian hornet (Vespa velutina), also known as the yellow-legged hornet, is a species of hornet native to Southeast Asia.
In a study of crossreactivity of the casein fractions among different species, the IgE response to ewe and goat milk was weaker than that to cow and buffalo.
Capsicum frutescens is a species of chili pepper that includes the following cultivar and varieties: Piri piri, African birdseye, or African devil, Malagueta pepper, Tabasco pepper, used to make Tabasco sauce, and Thai pepper, also called Chili Padi or Siling labuyo.
Atazanavir, marketed under the trade name Reyataz is an antiretroviral drug of the protease inhibitor (PI) class.
This receptor is expressed by activated, but not by resting, T and B cells.
The PLOD1 gene (procollagen-lysine, 2-oxoglutarate 5-dioxygenase 1) is located on chromosome 1p36.22.
Veterinary Medicine: The causes for abortions in swine are separated into two categories: primary infections of the reproductive tract that result in 30-40% of abortions, mummies and stillbirths; the second category includes toxins, environmental and nutritional stresses, and systemic disease in the sow which account for the remaining 60-70% of aborted fetuses.
Immature basophils are large mononuclear cells with or without an indented nucleus, coarsely clumped chromatin structure, and no nucleoli.
Found on NK-cells, some T and B-cells and some monocytes Associated with Large granular lymphocytosis
By binding to CD38, it inhibits the growth of CD38 expressing tumor cells and causes cell death by immune mediated tumor cell lysis .
In addition, it appears to function in a variety of other metabolic processes in which its role has not been characterized.
Children (those under 18) are also at an increased risk of bone, joint, or tendon toxicities.
Carbapenemases can also be detected by other methods, including the modified Hodge test to detect carbapenemase production in isolates and minimum inhibitory concentration (MIC) to determine level of resistance.
There are a large number of sub-species which differ in clinical symptoms and presentation as well as geographic distribution.
Trypanosoma evansi is a protozoan trypanosome in the genus trypanosoma that causes one form of the surra disease in animals.
Sucrose intolerance (also known as Congenital Sucrase-Isomaltase Deficiency (CSID) or Sucrase-isomaltase deficiency) occurs when sucrase is not secreted in the small intestine.
7-Hydroxymitragynine (mitragynine hydroxyindolenine), a terpenoid indole alkaloid in the plant Mitragyna speciosa, is a derivative of Mitragynine (also called Kratom).
Certain protein allergens and chemicals capable of acting as haptens occur at high concentrations in workplace environments.
Parsley has been in human use in the Mediterranean since around 2,000 years ago.
Symptoms of acute exposure to parathion include irritation to eyes or skin, respiratory system, blurring or dimness of vision, rhinorrhea, headache, chest tightness, wheezing, laryngeal spasm, salivation, cyanosis, anorexia, nausea, vomiting, abdominal cramps, diarrhea, sweating, muscle fasciculation, lassitude, paralysis, dizziness, confusion, ataxia, convulsions, coma, low blood pressure, and cardiac irregularities.
Among the Acinetobacter species, Acinetobacter baumannii accounts for about 80% of reported infections.
The most important Cockroach species in industrialised countries are the German and the American.
In chemistry, an amino acid is a molecule containing both amine and carboxyl functional groups.
Relative intensity takes an individual's level of fitness and can be defined in terms of a percent of a person's (1) maximal heart rate, (2) heart rate reserve, or (3) aerobic capacity reserve.
Niobium (formerly columbium) a chemical element symbol Nb (formerly Cb) and atomic number 41, is a soft, grey, ductile transition metal found in the pyrochlore mineral.
The CLCN5 gene (chloride channel, voltage-sensitive 5) is located on chromosome Xp11.23-p11.22.
Higher Lp(a) levels have been consistently observed in white and Asian groups with vascular disease, but not in African Americans.
The eosinophil major basic protein also causes the release of histamine from mast cells and basophils, activates neutrophils and alveolar macrophages, and is directly implicated in epithelial cell damage, exfoliation and bronchospasm in asthma.
Synthetic cannabinoids interact with the same brain receptors as THC (the active drug present in marijuana) and have been demonstrated to produce similar effects.
It comes as a tablet and as a liquid suspension.
The tree produces a non-toxic, colorless, chemical called hydrojuglone which becomes highly toxic when exposed to air or soil compounds.
It is required for optimal growth in infancy and childhood and for nitrogen equilibrium in adults.
Burkholderia is a genus of proteobacteria probably best-known for its pathogenic members: Burkholderia mallei, responsible for glanders, a disease that occurs mostly in horses and related animals; Burkholderia pseudomallei, causative agent of melioidosis; and Burkholderia cepacia, an important pathogen of pulmonary infections in people with cystic fibrosis (CF).
The myelin in CNS is produced by the oligodendrocytes and the myelin in the PNS is produced by the Schwann cells.
Two main versions of the COOP Charts exist: the original CO-OP charts and the CO-OP/WONCA version (this panel).
P-ALP is also found in some malignant diseases, including ovarian cancers, sarcomas, pancreatic and stomach cancers.
The disease is self-limiting in healthy individuals, but can be severe in immunocompromised hosts.
It is metabolized in the liver to hydromorphone-3-glucuronide (H3G, ~40%), dihydroisomorphine (~ 1%), dihydromorphine (~.1%) as well as trace amounts of hydromorphone-3-sulfate, norhydromorphone, and nordihydroisomorphone.
Rearrangements or fusions involving ABL-class genes, including ABL1, ABL2 and PDGFRB, are associated with BCR-ABL1-like B-lymphoblastic leukemia/lymphoma (BCR-ABL1-like B-ALL), also known as Philadelphia-like (Ph-like) ALL.
It is structurally related to the cytostatic fluorouracil and to floxuridine.
Mutations in this gene have been observed in patients with the major form (type 1) of Bardet-Biedl syndrome.
Negative side effects of infliximab include fibrostenosing CD and sepsis.
It is typically present in metabolically active cells of the heart and skeletal muscle.
Cholinesterase is measured to diagnose organophosphate and carbamate toxicity or identify atypical enzyme forms.
The distance between A point and Nasion perpendicular to the Frankfort Horizontal Plane
Because the course of treatment for malignant melanoma relative to benign lesions varies significantly from the time of diagnosis, accuracy and expediency of the diagnosis are necessary.
Phosphofructokinase (PFK) is a kinase enzyme that phosphorylates fructose-6-phosphate to fructose-1,6-bisphosphate in the glycolytic pathway.
It is endemic in all states and territories of Australia.
Na plays a number of key roles in the homeostasis of the human body.
Activated platelets secrete cytokines, chemokines, and growth factors, all which play a role in thrombus development.
It also binds to areas with high distributions of noradrenergic neurons.
It is found planted from southern and central Europe to western Asia, North America, South Africa, Australia and New Zealand, especially in urban areas.
By testing for the absence of lysine decarboxylase (LDC) activity and presence of the IpaH gene, Shigella and EIEC can be differentiated from non-enteroinvasive E. coli.
Deletions or duplications in the SHOX gene or its regulatory regions are known to cause disorders associated with short stature, including Leri-Weill dyschondrosteosis (LWD), Langer mesomelic dysplasia (LMD), and Idiopathic short stature (ISS).
The nonpolar tails are oriented inward toward the fat and the polar end of lecithin is oriented outward toward the water.
Revised FAB (French, American, British) criteria indicate that serum or urine lysozyme levels 3 times normal fulfill one of three criteria for the presence of M4/M5 (acute myeloid with monocytic differentiation) vs M2 (acute myeloblastic leukemia with maturation).
Autoantibodies to ARS are a hallmark of connective tissue diseases including anti-synthetase syndrome (ASS) and idiopathic inflammatory myopathies such as polymyositis (PM) and dermatomyositis (DM).
People with lymphedema are more susceptible to bacterial infections of the skin and lymphatic system, which can lead to hardening and thickening of the skin, also known as elephantiasis.
When exposed to a hypotonic concentration of sodium in a solution, red cells take in more water, swell until the capacity of the cell membrane is exceeded, and burst.
Further evidence for cross-reactivity between Cucurbitaceae and Ragweed was found in a study that reported that of the sera of 192 allergic patients, 63% contained anti-Ragweed IgE, and among these patients, 28% to 50% had sera containing IgE specific for any single gourd family member.
They are composed of fused lysosomes and contain peroxidase, lysosomal enzymes, and large crystalline inclusions.
The panel named T cell subsets will usually contain both CD3 + CD4 and CD3 + CD8 counts.
No clinical allergy to Cranberry has been documented to date.
Dilute Russell viper venom time (dRVVT) is used most commonly as one of the screening tests to diagnose lupus anticoagulants (LA), which are phospholipid autoantibodies associated with excess clot formation, excess bleeding, and repeated miscarriages.
Information from Jacobs and DeMott Laboratory Test Handbook, 5th edition, DS Jacobs, WR DeMott and DK Oxley, 2001.
Extremely high doses of phorate can lead to death resulting from respiratory arrest or lung constrictions.
2-oxoisocaproate is a branched-chain 2-oxo acid (BCOA) that accumulates in maple syrup urine disease (MSUD).
The infection can spread to various tissues including to the central nervous system leading to meningitis and to the joints where it manifests as arthritis.
Due to safety concerns related to drug dependence and overdose and new safer psychoactive medications barbiturate use sharply declined in the 1950s.
It also functions in very early stages of kidney organogenesis.
FIP-infected kidney showing inflammatory responseFeline infectious peritonitis (FIP) is a fatal, incurable disease that affects cats.
Mutations in PCSK9 result in increased enzyme activity, which leads to increased receptor degradation and decreased availability of receptors to bind and transport lipids into the cell.
Short term exposure to high levels of ethyl acetate results first in irritation of the eyes, nose and throat, followed by headache, nausea, vomiting, sleepiness, and unconsciousness.
This gene encodes a growth inhibitory protein thought to play a role in the stabilization of tuberin.
It is marketed by Hoffmann-La Roche with the brand name Bumex.
Aztreonam (Azactam®) is a monocyclic beta-lactam antibiotic (a monobactam) originally isolated from Chromobacterium violaceum.
It is produced from the esterification of isobutanol with acetic acid.
When observing the blood HDL levels, less than 40 mg/dL is too low (high risk for heart disease), 40-59 mg/dL is average, and 60 mg/dL or higher is optimal (low risk for heart disease).
A microorganism or microbe is an organism that is microscopic (too small to be visible to the naked eye).
It is used as an appetite depressant and an experimental tool in animal studies.
All categories of Histiocytes are derived from the bone marrow by multiplication from a stem cell.
Xanthurenic acid is a metabolic intermediate that accumulates and is excreted by pyridoxine (vitamin B6) deficient animals after the ingestion of tryptophan.
This allows the sugar to act as a reducing agent as in the Maillard and Benedict's reactions.
Mutations in this gene result in hearing loss and Usher Syndrome Type IF (USH1F).
The protein encoded by this gene is a bHLH transcription factor and shares similarity with another bHLH transcription factor, Dermo1.
Narcotics have potent analgesic effects associated with significant changes in mood and behavior, and with the potential for dependence and tolerance following repeated administration.
White hickory, closely related to the Pecan (Hickory) tree (Carya pecan), is a member of the Juglandaceae (Walnut) family and is the most abundant of the Hickories.
It is used for treating restlessness, agitation, and insomnia in the elderly, as well as acute alcohol withdrawal.
Dextroamphetamine is a powerful psychostimulant which produces increased alertness, wakefulness, energy and self-confidence in association with decreased fatigue and appetite.
The type of heater used to supply heat to an infant incubator or open warmer.
Leading countries in the growing of Cucumbers include Britain, China, India, Iraq, Java, Kurdistan, Turkey, and Venezuela.
Because MPS is so rare and the symptoms so variable, it is difficult to diagnose in its earliest stages.
The gangrenous symptoms are due to vasoconstriction induced by the alkaloids of the fungus.
DQB1*0302 and is found most often in the haplotype DQA1*0301:DQB1*0302, about 10% of the time it is found in the haplotype DQA1*0302:DQB1*0302.
Symptoms of poisoning by inhalation include bloody or runny nose, coughing, chest discomfort, difficult or short breath, and wheezing due to constriction or excess fluid in the bronchial tubes.
A genus of flagellate protozoans found in the blood and lymph of vertebrates and invertebrates, both hosts being required to complete the life cycle.
The M protein is required for assembly and can also induce the production of virus-neutralizing antibodies.
Bacterial meningitis in neonates is a severe infectious disease with mortality rates varying between 10% and 15%.
Identification of lex2 in clinical specimens can be used to identify H influenzae as one of the pathogens responsible for a specific infection.
Hepatitis C virus NS3 mutations are associated with protease inhibitors resisitance.
It occurs as scattered trees in large forests on the banks of the Amazon, Rio Negro, and the Orinoco.
DOCK8 is important in immunity by contributing to cellular migration, cytotoxicity, antibody production, and immunological memory.
Saturated fats are fat molecules that have no double bonds between carbon molecules because they are saturated with hydrogen molecules.
Patients susceptible to serious complications may experience acute encephalitis and subsequent brain damage, fatal respiratory and neurologic complications, or a rare, fatal degenerative disease of the central nervous system characterized by behavioral and intellectual deterioration and seizures that begin 7-10 years after the measles infection.
Left ventricular (LV) systolic dyssynchrony represents variability in the timing of contraction in different LV myocardial segments.
Midazolam is metabolized by cytochrome C450 3A (CYP3A) primarily to 1-Hydroxymidazolam, but also in smaller amounts to 4-Hydroxymedazolam and also the 1,4 Dihydroxy form.
The active form of TB is transmissible and can be diagnosed by culturing the organism or by using molecular testing.
PBG (Porphobilinogen) clinically is used to diagnose porphyria cutanea tarda, hereditary coproporphyria, and variegate porphyria.
Aubergine can induce symptoms of food allergy in sensitised individuals.
Blood group antigens are either sugars or proteins found on the red blood cell membrane and determine the blood group of an individual.
The identification of V600* mutations and their effects have led to the creation of targeted therapeutics, including vemurafenib, dabrafenib, and trametinib for the treatment of V600-mutated melanoma.
They do not thrive in the summer heat of warmer temperate and lowland tropical climates, but do grow well in cooler high altitude tropical areas.
The term "dioxin" is most commonly used for a family of derivatives of dioxin, known as polychlorinated dibenzodioxins (PCDDs).
It is important to distinguish IDC-P from high grade prostatic intraepithelial neoplasia (HGPIN), which demonstrates less architectural and cytological atypia.
A broad-spectrum 6-fluoronaphthyridinone antibacterial agent (FLUOROQUINOLONES) structurally related to NALIDIXIC ACID.
The nucleosome is the structural unit of chromatin and consists of a segment of dsDNA coiled around a histone core.
Three major types of naturally occurring fatty acids are: 1) saturated, 2) monounsaturated and 3) polyunsaturated.
It is toxic if inhaled or absorbed by the skin.
Levamisole (marketed as the hydrochloride salt under the trade name Ergamisol) is an antibiotic belonging to a class of synthetic imidazothiazole derivatives.
Like other echinocandins, anidulafungin targets the fungal cell wall and is fungicidal for all species of Candida, including those strains that are resistant to amphotericin B and azoles.
The route of transmission of B. miyamotoi to humans has not been firmly established, but likely involves the bite of infected black-legged ticks.
It is the precursor of surfactant and its presence in the amniotic fluid of the newborn indicates fetal lung maturity.
In vitro test to measure component of cell-mediated immune reactivity to M. tuberculosis based on the quantification of interferon-gamma released from sensitized WBC incubated overnight with purified PPD and control Ag.
Chromosomal translocation t(8;14)(q24;q32) invovling MYC and IGH genes is found in both in B-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) and in non-Hodgkin lymphomas (NHL), especially in the Burkitt lymphoma.
GABA is also present in non-neuronal tissues and may exist in peripheral and central tissues in the form of a dipeptide with histidine, as a compound known as homocarnosine.
In areas where the trees are cultivated commercially, heavy exposure to the pollen can cause allergy symptoms.
At the same time, a reciprocal stimulation of cholesterol ester synthesis takes place.
The Coast Live Oak (Quercus agrifolia) is an evergreen oak (highly variable and often shrubby), native to the California Floristic Province.
3-Aminoisobutyric acid is a product formed by the catabolism of thymine.
These subtypes are sometimes further split into sub-subtypes such as A1 and A2 or F1 and F2.
Pharmaceutical grade heparin is commonly derived from mucosal tissues of slaughtered meat animals such as porcine intestine or bovine lung.
Due to the importance of blood glucose homeostasis, a number of hormones regulate a set of genes (including PEPCK) in the liver that modulate the rate of glucose synthesis.
In most conditions, anaerobic exercise is accompanied by aerobic exercises because the less efficient anaerobic metabolism must supplement the aerobic system due to energy demands that exceed the aerobic system's capacity.
Therefore, the encoded protein is thought to be an important part of functional kinetochores.
It has been shown that kynurenic acid possesses neuroactive activity.
Many, but not all, C. trachomatis strains have an extrachromosomal plasmid.
Its primarily locus of expression is B-cells, where it appears to mediate aspects of B-cell - T-cell interaction.
Summarization of Episode Note contains pertinent data about the provision of care for a patient over a specified period of time.
BH4 is an essential cofactor required by aromatic amino acid hydroxylases as well as nitric oxide synthases.
This hardy cereal grain is native to Mesopotamia, and its use dates back to the Stone Age.
The Cashew nut comes from the Cashew nut tree, a member of the Anacardiaceae family, which includes a number of dermatitis-inducing plants such as poison ivy, poison oak, poison sumac and lacquer sumac.
Such patients are in danger of developing a hyperimmune response known as a cytokine storm which is characterized by an increased production of cytokines.
In the absence of BMIS, the Mullerian ducts would form a uterus and oviducts.
A picornavirus is a virus belonging to the family Picornaviridae.
Myoglobin is a very sensitive marker (90-100%) for acute myocardial infarction (AMI) but lacks specificity.
Within days, they develop fever, chills, myalgias and bone marrow depression.
24,25-Dihydroxycholecalciferol, also known as 24,25-dihydroxyvitamin D3 and (24R)-hydroxycalcidiol (abbreviated as 24(R),25-(OH)2D3), is a compound which is closely related to 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D3, the active form of vitamin D3, but like vitamin D3 itself and 25-hydroxyvitamin D3 is inactive as a hormone both in vitro and in vivo.
Benzene causes central nervous system damage acutely and bone marrow damage chronically and is carcinogenic.
Abnormal head shape can encompass a number of specifically named shape defects such as pyriform and tapering, as well as unamed defects which would fall under the term amorphous.
The t(4;14)(p16;q32)(FGFR3,IGH) is detected by FISH and PCR methods, but poorly analyzed by conventional cytogenetic methods (e.g. karyotyping).
The GPI-APs have various roles, some of which are to help to prevent RBC destruction, fight infection, and promote thrombosis.
Similar alternatively spliced transcripts are inferred to occur in human, and additional variants are likely to occur.
An increase in glucose concentration post glucagon is indicative of hyperinsulinism, while a lack of response to glucagon indicates that insufficient glycogen is available.
The angle between the Sella-Nasion plane and the Palatal plane (ANS-PNS)
It has been speculated that this species is more tractable than its northern counterpart, and was the source of the present domesticated stock, but there is no morphological evidence to support this theory.
Radial and vertical growth phases are widely considered to be characteristics of melanoma and not used to describe other neoplasms.
Mutants of S. aureus lacking protein A are more efficiently phagocytosed in vitro, and mutants in infection models have diminished virulence.
Hepatitis B is a disease of the liver caused by the Hepatitis B virus (HBV), a member of the Hepadnavirus family and one of several unrelated viral species which cause viral hepatitis.
It is a tall grass grown for its seed, corn, used as food and animal fodder.
This inhibition leads to further increased levels of extracellular adenosine.
Mutations in this gene lead to craniosynostosis and multiple types of skeletal dysplasia.
The glutamate dehydrogenase of C. difficile is a good antigen marker for the organism in feces because it is produced in high amounts by all strains, toxigenic or non-toxigenic.
The genus is native to temperate regions of the Northern Hemisphere.
Different forms of acid phosphatase are found in different organs, and their serum levels are used as a diagnostic for disease in the corresponding organs.
Plasma cells (or plasmocytes) are cells of the immune system that secrete large amounts of antibodies.
It is unrelated to other anticonvulsants and belongs to the group of aromatic allylic alcohols.
This agent was later chemically identified as 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT) by Rapport, and, as the broad range of physiological roles were elucidated, 5-HT became the preferred name in the pharmacological field.
Children with PWS develop a compulsion to eat, which leads to obesity and type 2 diabetes mellitus.
This enzyme has been linked directly to hypophosphatasia, a disorder that is characterized by hypercalcemia and includes skeletal defects.
Early technologies for chromosome analysis involved examining the banding patterns to assess chromosome deletion and/or duplication, known as a karyotype.
Disorders associated with the upstream VNTR (uVNTR) genotype and resulting MAO-A enzyme activity include Alzheimer's disease, aggression, panic disorder, bipolar affective disorder, major depressive disorder, and attention deficit hyperactivity disorder.
Genetic typing methods include pulsed-field gel electrophoresis (PFGE), ribotyping, and DNA-sequencing based methodologies such as multilocus sequence typing (MLST).
The volume is measured by centrifugation in a tube with graduated markings, or with automated blood cell counters.
If left untreated, LGV can develop into an invasive, systemic infection.
Additional transcript variants have been described, but their full-length natures have not been determined.
Oxidation of low-density lipoprotein (LDL) is thought to be a major factor in the pathophysiology of atherosclerosis.
There are 2 common species of Kiwi commercially available: A. chinensis - Gold kiwi and A. deliciosa - Green kiwi.
Pyroglutamic acid is sold as a dietary supplement in the United States.
A mitosporic fungal genus and an anamorphic form of Arthroderma.
A megaloblast is an unusually large erythroblast that can be associated with pernicious anemia (Vitamin B12 deficiency) and folic acid deficiency (collectively called megaloblastic anemia).
Mutations in this gene have been associated with Treacher Collins syndrome, a disorder which includes abnormal craniofacial development.
Dietary supplements generally supply single oral doses of 3-30 mg, while as a pharmaceutical agent it is given orally or by parenteral injection in 20-100 mg doses as a vasoconstrictor to hypotensive patients.
Tests for von Willebrand's disease and Fx1 deficiency which are releatively common coagulation disorders that may be overlooked in menorrhagia (heavy menstrual bleeding)
Typically, bone age is measured in a child under 18 using an x-ray of the hand and wrist.
Butriptyline (Evadene, Evadyne, Evasidol, Centrolese) is a tricyclic antidepressant (TCA).
African horse sickness (AHS) is a highly infectious, and deadly disease.
Many cases of paroxysmal cold hemoglobinuria (PCH) in children are preceded by a flu-like illness or respiratory infection and are thought to be viral in nature.
Alcuronium is a muscular relaxant used for anasthetic purposes that has been shown to cause anaphylactic shock in some individuals.
Asthma, allergic rhinitis and allergic conjunctivitis may result following exposure to Canary feathers, epithelial cells or droppings.
Api m 1 is a specific marker for primary sensitization to honey bee venom.
This gene encodes a member of the cytochrome P450 superfamily of enzymes.
Therefore, intravenous naloxone is used to treat opioid overdose, and it is used as a sublingual combination with buprenorphine, an opioid agonist-antagonist used to treat chronic opioid-dependence, to lower buprenorphine's abuse potential as follows: when the combination is taken sublingually as prescribed, naloxone exerts little effect and buprenorphine's effects predominate; however, if crushed and injected intravenously, naloxone's antagonist properties reverse the agonist effects of buprenorphine and can precipitate withdrawal.
Enzyme and fluorescent-based assays, which were preceded by the RAST test (Radio-AllergoSorbent Test), are performed to detect allergen-specific IgE in the patient's serum.
Ig light chains and two Ig heavy chains make one immunoglobulin (IgG) molecule.
A mold, which may result in allergy symptoms in sensitised individuals.
N-acetyl-L-cysteine (NAC) is derived from cysteine and is a popular dietary supplement that is metabolized into the antioxidant glutathione.
Some types of Swiss cheese have a distinctive appearance, as the blocks of the cheese are riddled with holes known as "eyes".
It is used mainly to provide temporary symptomatic relief of nasal congestion due to colds, allergies and allergic rhinitis.
This lack of stercobilin and other bile pigments causes feces to become clay-colored.
Variability of the activity of CYP2D6 based on the patient's genotype can influence the ability of codeine to relieve pain.(Tietz Fundamentals of Clinical Chemistry and Molecular Diagnostics, Seventh Edition; Carl A. Burtis; David E. Bruns, p580)
Accordingly, the Fy protein is also known as DARC (Duffy Antigen Receptor for Chenokines).
This protein interacts with polycystin 1, and they may be partners in a common signaling cascade involved in tubular morphogenesis.
RT-PCR is used to distinguish between PSV, Porcine teschovirus (PTV) and Enterovirus G (EV-G).PSV can be inactivated with sodium chlorite and 70% ethanol.
In the United States, florfenicol is currently indicated for the treatment of bovine respiratory disease (BRD) associated with Mannheimia (Pasteurella) haemolytica, Pasteurella multocida, and Haemophilus somnus, for treatment of bovine interdigital phlegmon (foot rot, acute interdigital necrobacillosis, infectious pododermatitis) associated with Fusobacterium necrophorum and Bacteroides melaninogenicus.
This protein is a member of the MRP subfamily which is involved in multi-drug resistance.
A potent, non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitor with activity specific for HIV-1.
Interleukin 5 primes basophils for agonist-induced generation of Leukotriene C4.
Among the most important are inhibition of cyclic nucleotide phosphodiesterases, antagonism of adenosine receptors, and modulation of intracellular calcium handling.
This disruption in binding interferes with the activation of the SMAD protein complex.
It is also among the Coronaviruses most frequently co-detected with other respiratory viruses.
Trichophyton is one of the leading causes of hair, skin, and nail infections in humans.
3,4-Methylenedioxyamphetamine (MDA), also known as tenamfetamine (INN), is a psychedelic, stimulant, and empathogen-entactogen of the phenethylamine and amphetamine chemical classes.
It is significantly decreased in urine after the use of the antibiotic neomycin.
The MC4R gene (melanocortin 4 receptor) is located on chromosome 18q22.
Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
Acetaldehyde, sometimes known as ethanal, is an organic chemical compound with the formula C H 3 CHO or MeCHO.
Setomelanomma/Helminthosporium almost always occurs seasonally and the spores are released on dry, hot days.
A subsequent visit for the problem is considered a follow-up ED episode of care.
It has been linked with subsequent development of Guillain-Barré syndrome (GBS), which usually develops two to three weeks after the initial illness.
Synthetic cannabinoids interact with the same brain receptors as THC (the active drug present in marijuana) and have been demonstrated to produce similar effects.
CAI has been correlated with cognitive impairments in conditions such as alzheimers disease and ischemic vascular dementia (IVD).
Alpha-1-fetoprotein (AFP) is a key variable in prenatal screening for the detection of trisomy 18, 21 and neural tube defect.
4-Hydroxyphenylpyruvic acid is an intermediate in the metabolism of phenylalanine.
The patterns of polymorphisms in VZV correlate with different geographical regions of infection and is the basis for the classification of viral clades.
The fluorquinolones affect the activity of DNA gyrase by reducing the cell's ability for DNA replication and transcription.
This gene encodes a member of the membrane-spanning 4A gene family.
The VHL gene (von Hippel-Lindau tumor suppressor, E3 ubiquitin protein ligase) is located on chromosome 3p25.3.
Allergic reactions include urticaria, angioedema, gastrointestinal distress, asthma, rhinitis, and anaphylaxis, and also severe allergic reactions, requiring emergency treatment.
Elevated levels are observed in patients with hepatobliary disease, such as accute hepatitis, cirrhosis, liver obstruction or hepatic carcinoma.
The LPA gene, previously called LP, is located on chromosome 6 and encodes the apolipoprotein(a) portion of lipoprotein(a).
Nordiazepam is an intermediate in the metabolism of diazepam to oxazepam.
It is used topically in dermatomycoses also orally and parenterally.
Administered intravenously or intramuscularly, gentamicin is used to treat many bacterial infections, particularly gram-negative organisms such as meningitis, and infections of the blood, abdomen, lungs, skin, bones, joints and urinary tract, and is often used to treat severe cases of tularemia and the plague.
The commercial PRRS modified live vaccine (Ingelvac(®) PRRS MLV, Boehringer Ingelheim Vetmedica Inc., St. Joseph, Missouri, USA) based on type 2 PRRSV, was first licensed for use in in 1996.
Excretion of this protein in urine may provide defense against urinary tract infections caused by uropathogenic bacteria.
In addition, casein is relatively hydrophobic resulting in low solubility in water.
Pyridoxal, folic acid, riboflavin, and Vitamin B(12) are all required for methionine metabolism, and deficiency of each of these vitamins result in elevated plasma homocysteine.
While it plays an important role in the growth of structural tissues of skin, hair follicles, and the myelin sheaths of nerve fibers, it has also been found in areas of inflammation including arthritic joints, muscle fibers, and brain tissue affected by multiple sclerosis and Alzheimer's disease.
A durable T cell immune response to SARS-CoV-2 has been demonstrated that is a more sensitive marker of past infection than humoral response.
This provides a more accurate measure of T3 levels because the carrier proteins can increase or decrease in various conditions artificially inflating or shrinking the total T3.
An enzyme that catalyzes the oxidative decarboxylation of coproporphyrinogen III to protoporphyrinogen IX by the conversion of two propionate groups to two vinyl groups.
Banana may commonly induce symptoms of food allergy in Latex-sensitised individuals, but may also induce symptoms of food allergy in non-Latex sensitised individuals.
The region of the N gene that distinguishes between the genotypes is a 450 nucleotide sequence of the carboxyl terminus referred to as N-450.
Veterinary Medicine: The Strains of EC that possess the aidA-I gene can infect swine and cause edema disease and postweaning diarrhea (PWD), both of which have significant negative economic impacts on farms across the world.
Inosine is also an intermediate in a chain of purine nucleotides reactions required for muscle movements.
Acknowledgement: Authorization for administration of medication away from clinic, provider signature and date, parent/guardian authorization: signatures and dates consenting school to give medications.
Bis(2-ethylhexyl)phthalate, commonly abbreviated DEHP, is an organic compound with the formula C6H4(CO2C8H17)2.
It is considered to be the most immunodominant gluten peptide, and testing is used for monitoring for celiac disease .
It is classified as slightly toxic and is rapidly absorbed through the gastrointestinal tract, skin, mucous membranes, and lungs.
ctrA is likely the target gene most often used to identify Nm, but because it is prone to rearrangement it does not detect roughly 16% of patients with Nm.
The F10 gene encodes for factor X, a vitamin K-dependent protein of the blood coagulation cascade synthesized in the liver.
A zinc-containing enzyme which oxidizes primary and secondary alcohols or hemiacetals in the presence of NAD.
Zopiclone is not commercially available in the United States but in medical use in many countries.
For example, if a patient has an IgE response to a particular MBP-allergen fused molecule and does not have a response to MBP alone, the MBP-allergen response is likely due to the allergen itself.
CD25 is expressed in most B-cell neoplasms, some acute nonlymphocytic leukemias, neuroblastomas, and tumor infiltrating lymphocytes.
It is likely not the structure, but the deregulation of transcription of one or more genes as a result of repeat-contraction-mediated chromatin alterations, that causes FSHD.
This gene encodes transthyretin, one of the three prealbumins including alpha-1-antitrypsin, transthyretin and orosomucoid.
Cefuroxime (brand names Ceftin, Zinacef, Supacef) is a broad-spectrum cephalosporin antibiotic resistant to beta-lactamase and used to treat infections caused by gram-negative and gram-positive organisms.
The gene has been shown to function in nephron development, and regulates development of the embryonic pancreas.
The following are types of erythrocyte (RBC) inclusion bodies: Pappenheimer bodies- iron granules in RBCs usually due to accelerated erythropoiesis.
Progesterone acts on the uterus, the mammary glands, and the brain.
Penicillium notatum, also known as Penicillium chrysogenum, is a mold commonly found in most homes from which Beta-lactam antibiotics are extracted.
In immunocompromised patients, S. maltophilia can lead to nosocomial infections.
The KARS gene (lysyl-tRNA synthetase) is located on chromosome 16q23.1.
The channel is permeable to Ca(2+), Fe(2+), Na(+), K(+), and H(+), and is modulated by changes in Ca(2+) concentration.
Leucine-rich glioma-inactivated protein 1 (LGI1) is part of a group of antigens that have target antibodies that bind to neuronal cell surface or synaptic proteins but are not associated with a malignancy.
Yohimbine has been used as both an over-the-counter dietary supplement in herbal extract form and prescription medicine in pure form for the treatment of sexual dysfunction.
It was shown that the activation occurs through phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase.
The ROMA score must be interpreted in conjunction with an independent clinical and radiological assessment.
Disease caused by E. rhusiopathiae that affects swine and turkeys has the most economic impact.
Found on B-lymphoblasts and T-lymphoblasts Associated with Lymphoblastic lymphoma, B-cell ALL and T-cell ALL
g202 must be differentiated from Maize/Corn (Zea mays) f8, the food.
Lymphoma is classified into two categories: Hodgkin and Non-Hodgkin's lymphoma.
Normally an integral-membrane protein, soluble IL2RA has been isolated and determined to result from extracellular proteolyisis.
Hydrogen breath test using lactose is performed to diagnose a lactose malabsorption.
A nerve block is usually an outpatient procedure performed by a radiologist or anesthesiologist.
Deoxy-sphingolipids are elevated in patients with steatosis compared to those without fatty liver.
A second species, Enterobius gregorii, has been reported from Europe, Asia and Africa and has identical morphology, life cycle, clinical presentation and treatment.
Bile acids are formed in the liver, from cholesterol, stored and concentrated in the gallbladder, and excreted into the intestines in response to food.
It is produced mainly as a byproduct of acrylonitrile manufacture.
The B vitamins are a group of water-soluble vitamins that are part of many of the chemical reactions in the body.
Cobalt (CO) is an essential trace mineral needed in small amounts in the diet and is an integral part of vitamin B12, cobalamin, which supports red blood cell production and the formation of myelin nerve coverings.
Cryptococcus gattii, formerly known as Cryptococcus neoformans var gattii, is a fungus that lives in the environment in primarily tropical and sub-tropical areas of the world but also in some parts of the United States and British Columbia.
B-cell lymphoma/leukemia 10 is a protein that in humans is encoded by the BCL10 gene.
M1 also binds to RNPs in the nucleus, inhibiting viral transcription.
Research is ongoing to determine the evolutionary and epidemiological factors that shape the genetic diversity of influenza B virus.
It has a hairy, dull green-brown skin that most people peel off before consumption.
PSP deficiency has only been identified in one patient, whose symptoms also improved with L-ser treatment.
C. difficile is an opportunistic anaerobic bacterium that grows in the intestine when the normal flora has been altered by antibiotic treatment.
Technically, Raspberries are those brambles in which the small, knobby, thimble-shaped fruit separates readily from the core or receptacle, unlike the similar-looking Blackberry, of which the fruit is firmly attached to the receptacle.
Abnormal megakaryopoiesis and thrombopoiesis can lead to morbidity and mortality from bleeding due to moderate to severe thrombocytopenia.
But in the familes Muridae and Cricetidae are many wild species of Mouse, and rarer commensals such as the Doormouse.
This gene product associates with RNA polymerase II, and through the C-terminal domain, also interacts with histone deacetylase complexes.
The KCNC3 gene (potassium channel, voltage gated Shaw related subfamily C, member 3) is located on chromosome 19q13.33.
A pyridinium-substituted semisynthetic, broad-spectrum antibacterial used especially for Pseudomonas infections in debilitated patients.
Bacterial resistance to macrolide drugs has increased in conjunction with their heavy use in both medicine and animal husbandry.
Cockroach allergens (like Mite allergens) have an association with socioeconomic factors and population density
C. trachomatis has also been detected in some patients with temporomandibular joint (TMJ) disease.
Instant coffee may have additives and coffee substitutes added, e.g. roasted chicory, chickpea, cereal, fruits and vegetables.
Testing for IgE antibodies may be used to help diagnose an allergic disease or the cause of an anaphylactic episode in a patient.
It is typically applied to neoplasms that show aggressive behavior characterised by local invasion or distant metastasis.
Elevated levels of macroglobulins (macroglobulinemia) may cause manifestations of excess blood viscosity (as is the case for IgM antibodies in Waldenström macroglobulinemia) and/or precipitate within blood vessels when temperature drops (as in cryoglobulinaemia).
A species of parasitic protozoa causing ENTAMOEBIASIS and amebic dysentery (DYSENTERY, AMEBIC).
Like the BASOPHILS, mast cells contain large amounts of HISTAMINE and HEPARIN.
Changes in the CSF, plasma and urine levels of beta alanine, beta aminoisobutyrate (BAIB) and gamma aminobutyrate (GABA) may help identify certain metabolic disorders.
This facilitated detection of the virus globally with subsequent sequences being nearly identical, suggesting a single, recent emergence from a virus related to bat coronaviruses and the SARS coronavirus.
Colorless rectangular plates with notched corners (always observed with fat), associated with chyluria, UTI, or nephrotic syndrome.
Genotypes I to III are subdivided into groups A and B. Genotype I is the most frequently reported.
3016-3 Thyrotropin in Serum or Plasma This code has existed since the first release of LOINC (in 1994).
Recorded bird deaths from HJ infection are uncommon but not rare, and include several domestic turkeys at a commercial facility and young broiler chickens in an experimental setting.
Both are active against many gram-positive and some gram-negative bacteria.
The SMAD4 gene (SMAD family member 4) is located on chromosome 18q21.1.
Genetic screening for abnormal CYP1A2 metabolism is focused on the presence of *1C (-3860G>A), *1F (163C>A) and *1K (-729C>T) genetic polymorphisms.
This gene, which encodes a member of the serine/threonine kinase family, regulates cell polarity and functions as a tumor suppressor.
Oxycodone is in the opioid drug class and is a potent pain reliever.
There is no evidence that methoxychlor damages genetic material or is an animal carcinogen.
Online calculators are available to correct for hemoglobin levels and altitude and/or pressure where the measurement was taken.
Serious side effects include akathisia, tardive dyskinesia and the potentially fatal neuroleptic malignant syndrome.
Loprazolam is recommended as a short-term therapy only, due to adverse events associated with the drug including dependence and withdrawal symptoms.
This protein binds to DNA and recognizes an 8-bp palindromic sequence (GTCTAGAC) called the Smad-binding element (SBE).
Finally, peptides derived from the C-terminus of this protein have antimicrobial activity against E. coli and P. aeruginosa.
Gastrinoma are malignant in 62% of cases, with 44% having metastases.
Mycoplasma pneumoniae is a filamentous cell without a cell well.
Von Hippel-Lindau syndrome (VHL) is a dominantly inherited familial cancer syndrome predisposing to a variety of malignant and benign tumors.
Taxonomically, yeast are characterized by their size and shape, the presence or absence of capsules, conidiogenesis (the process of daughter cell formation), presence of sexual spores, the formation of pseudo-and true hyphae and physiologic data.
Cardamom, a member of the Ginger family, is one of the world's very ancient spices, known to the ancient Egyptians, Greeks and Romans.
The normal accumulation in the urine after 24-hour collection is 0.2 to 0.6 mg in men and 0.1 to 1 mg in women.
Identification of a particular cpn60 sequence in a clinical specimen has been used to identify Enterococcus faecalis as a causative infectious organism.
Severe pulmonary fibrosis followed by pulmonary hypertension have been reported.
Adult teeth naturally darken with age as the pulp within the tooth shrinks and dentin is deposited in its place.
They indicate bacterial vaginosis, particularly that caused by Gardnerella vaginalis, a group of Gram-negative bacteria.
The genus Plasmodium was discovered in 1885 by Marchiafava and Celli.
Elaeis is a genus consisting of only 2 species of Palms.
In the United Kingdom, cod is the one of the most common kind of fish to be found in fish and chips, along with Haddock and Plaice.
Ara h 6 and Ara h 2 together were found to be the best predictors for moderate to severe peanut allergy.
Stx1a and Stx2a are produced by some serogroups of Escherichia coli (also known as Vero toxins and previously referred to as Shiga-like toxins) are two cytotoxins that cause hemorrhagic colitis (HC) and hemolytic uremic syndrome (HUS).
This gene encodes an enzyme that hydrolyzes the terminal alpha-L-iduronic acid residues of two glycosaminoglycans, dermatan sulfate and heparan sulfate.
Products containing this drug are sold under a wide variety of names including (but not limited to)
and on surfaces in the environment, causing transmission of C. auris from patient to patient.
PEPEC attaches to intestinal epithelial cells in a characteristic pattern called attaching and effacing (A/E).
Mutations in this gene are associated with Hermansky-Pudlak syndrome type 1.
Thyrotropin (TSH) has three codes in LOINC which differ by their detection limits.
The information in the blood establishment registration electronic file includes the address, contact information, and types of blood processed at the establishment.
Thymine could also be a target for actions of 5-fluorouracil (5-FU) in cancer treatment.
A high intake of these substances impairs uptake of cholesterol from the gut, thus reducing total and LDL cholesterol.
Differential translation initiation is mediated by an out-of-frame, upstream open reading frame which is located between the GUG and the first AUG start codons.
Alphaviruses, like all other group IV viruses have a positive sense single stranded RNA genome.
Chlorinated solvents are a large family of chemical compounds that contain chlorine, for example, carbon tetrachloride (carbon tet), trichloroethylene (TCE), or methylene chloride.
Inhalant allergen mix 8 (ix8, IP8) detects Dermatophagoides pteronyssinus (D1), Cat dander (E1), Dog dander (E5), Timothy grass (G6), Rye grass (G12), Cladosporium herbarum (M2), Birch (T3), and Mugwort (W6) IgE antibodies.
Patients with HNPCC also have an increased lifetime risk for other cancers of the endometrium, stomach, small intestine, hepatobiliary system, kidney, ureter, and ovary.
It is produced in the liver when ursodeoxycholic acid is conjugated to taurine.
They are distinguished from other members of their family, Agaricaceae, by their chocolate-brown spores.
It is produced industrially from paraformaldehyde and a mixture of chlorosulfonic acid and sulfuric acid.
Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
It has been naturalised in other parts of the world.
In humans, these larvae do not follow normal patterns and may produce visceral larva migrans (LARVA MIGRANS, VISCERAL).
It is now grown in more than 100 countries in tropical, sub-tropical and temperate climates.
Symptoms of acute exposure in humans include nausea, headache, tightness in the chest, unconsciousness, and convulsions.
The TES measures the time from the end of diastole, which is the same for all segments, to the end of systole, which varies across segments depending on the degree of LV dysfunction.
The encoded protein may associate with the killer-cell inhibitory receptor (KIR) family of membrane glycoproteins and may act as an activating signal transduction element.
Since people heavily relied upon horses for communication (postal service), military (cavalry) and general transport, the social and economic impact of widespread equine disease would have been devastating.
When the triglycerides in VLDL are removed by lipoprotein lipase, VLDL is converted to a smaller particle with a new name, intermediate-density lipoprotein (IDL).
The SAC domain, approximately 400 amino acids in length and consisting of seven conserved motifs, has been shown to possess phosphoinositide phosphatase activity.
Acknowledgement: Authorization for administration of medication away from clinic, provider signature and date, parent/guardian authorization: signatures and dates consenting school to give medications.
P-cresol has been shown to induce oxidative stress in vitro and subsequent endothelial dysfunction in uremic patients.
Campylobacter fetus is a species of Gram-negative, motile bacteria with a characteristic S -shaped rod morphology similar to members of the genus Vibrio.
According to one definition, heavy metals are a group of elements between copper and bismuth on the periodic table of the elementshaving specific gravities greater than 4.0.A stricter definition limits the term to those metals heavier than the rare earth metals, at the bottom of the periodic table.
The protein is able to form a dimer stabilized by noncovalent forces, inhibiting papain and cathepsins l, h and b.
Permitted is any degree of hydrogenation, any substituents and any H-isomer.
It is planted as an ornamental in Australia, New Zealand, Chile, and India, along the Rhone valley in France, and in Britain.
A small amount is not protein bound and is called free PSA.
To standardize the capture of a product information for recombinant deoxyribonucleic acid construct drugs utilized in genetically engineered animals.
Everolimus is a kinase inhibitor that is used to treat a number of cancers and to prevent rejection of organ transplants.
An HIV protease inhibitor that works by interfering with the reproductive cycle of HIV.
C burnetii infection in humans is typically asymptomatic, but in acute disease can exhibit symptoms of a self-limited flu-like illness, pneumonia or hepatitis.
Being used in the calculation of free T3 and free T4 index (FTI), the T-uptake variants also proliferate into variants of FTI.
It is also the key structural component of hair and nails.
This gene encodes neutrophil cytosolic factor 2, the 67-kilodalton cytosolic subunit of the multi-protein NADPH oxidase complex found in neutrophils.
Pumpkin seeds are consumed as a snack in many cultures throughout the world and are especially popular in Central American countries, where strains have been selected primarily for edible seed use.
However, the excretion of certain acyl glycines is increased in several inborn errors of metabolism.
If the substance comes into contact with human skin it can cause the area to become dry, turn red, and become extremely painful.
Mulberry tree was reported to induce severe hayfever, but asthma was not reported.
Whilst this produces an enhanced "bang" when the drug is administered intravenously, it cannot be distinguished from morphine via other routes, although the different side effect profile, including lower incidence of nausea, is very apparent.
Trichophyton rubrum is a fungus that is the most common cause of athlete's foot, jock itch and ringworm.
The mean blood glucose levels are 10-15% lower than those of plasma.
Weed allergen mix 209 (Rw209) detects ambrosia elatior (w1), ambrosia psilostachya (w2), and ambrosia trifida (w3) IgE antibodies.
Clobenzorex (Asenlix, Dinintel, Finedal, Rexigen) is a stimulant drug of the phenethylamine and amphetamine chemical classes used as an appetite suppressant.
Brachyspira that are weakly heamolytic causing a mild colitis include B. murdochii, B. intermedia, B. aalborgi, and B. alvinipulli in pigs, chickens and humans.
The analgesic affect of sufentanil is most likely because it is converted to morphine.
Patient Information: MRN, name, address, age, sex, dob, weight, parent/guardian name, if asthma, PCP/clinic name, date, school, grade, medical diagnosis, 2. Emergency contact information: names & phone numbers, 3.
They are peptides used by immune and inflammatory cells to communicate and control cell operations.
Hyaline casts are cylindrical and clear, with a low refractive index, so that they can easily be missed on cursory review under brightfield microscopy, or in an aged sample where dissolution has occurred.
The two substrates of this enzyme are 5,10-methylenetetrahydrofolate and NADP+, whereas its 3 products are 5,10-methenyltetrahydrofolate, NADPH, and H+.
IL-7 stimulates the differentiation of multipotent (pluripotent) hematopoietic stem cells into lymphoid progenitor cells (as opposed to myeloid progenitor cells where differentiation is stimulated by IL-3).
Transcription of the 2 or 3-repeat (short) alleles results in reduced MAOA activity and consequently increased levels of serotonin and other amine neurotransmitters, which is thought to increase the risk for aggression and psychiatric disorders.
Functionally, fetal hemoglobin differs most from adult hemoglobin in that it is able to bind oxygen with greater affinity than the adult form, giving the developing fetus better access to oxygen from the mother's bloodstream.
Once the EGFR T790M mutation is discovered the median survival of the patient is less than two years.
A food, which may result in allergy symptoms in sensitised individuals.
Medication orders (type medication, dosage amount and time, side effects/instructions), 6. Emergency Response: free text description of a "cardiac emergency" for student, 7.
This staging system is based on how much cancer remains after surgery to remove the tumor and whether the cancer has spread.
The EZH2 (enhancer of zeste 2 polycomb repressive complex 2 subunit) gene is located on chromosome 7 at 7q36.1.
Progressive infections in the months following initial exposure may be indicative of bone, joint, skin and soft tissue involvement.
Levels can also be elevated in benign, inflammatory, and chronic diseases.
It is especially seen in connection with soft fruits, e.g. strawberries and grapes.
Since 2014 it has spread explosively in the Americas where it has infected hundreds of thousands of people.
Uses:Calcium phosphate is an important raw material for the production of phosphoric acid and fertilizers, for example in the Odda process.
Spices as hidden allergens are potentially very dangerous because minute amounts can cause systemic reactions and even anaphylactic shock.
Though rare, C. fetus can lead to fatal septicemia in newborns and immunocompromised individuals.
The rJug r 3 is a recombinant protein of the walnut and is a lipid transfer protein.
It stains weakly acid fast and loses this trait upon being grown in culture.
This gene encodes a member of the POU-III class of neural transcription factors.
This weak acid and its salts are used as a food preservative.
This colorless liquid is an important polar aprotic solvent that dissolves both polar and nonpolar compounds and is miscible in a wide range of organic solvents as well as water.
Sequencing only the coding regions of the genome is currently less expensive than WGS since less genetic material is sequenced.
FSH acts on the granulosa cells of the ovary and the Sertoli cells of testis.
Increased uroporphyrinogen, uroporphyrin, and coproporphyrin excretion occurs in porphyria cutanea tarda.
Vitamin D deficiency may result from inadequate dietary intake, insufficient sunlight, malabsorption problems, kidney or liver impairment.
Drug tests can detect cotinine in the blood, urine, or saliva.
Of the five genera in the family, only influenza A virus (IAV), influenza B and C are medically relevant to humans.
IF proteins are found in all metazoan cells as well as bacteria.
It also declines with successful treatment of left ventricular dysfunctionand heart failure and is used by some to track the success of such treatment.
Student's role in management of their diabetes (check skills present): basic skills, syringe/pen skills, insulin pumps, oral medications, 8.
It is very important to caution for false positive results when screening for isovaleric acidemia by tandem mass spectrometry based on dried blood-spot levels of C5-acylcarnitines, including isovalerylcarnitine and its isomer, pivaloylcarnitine; pivaloylcarnitine is derived from pivalate-generating antibiotics, and has caused many false-positive results. .
The presence of antibodies to gliadin peptide and tissue transglutaminase can be used in conjunction with clinical findings and other lab tests to aid in the diagnosis of IgA sufficient and IgA deficient celiac disease.
The GAA trinucleotide repeat expansion in the FXN gene causes Friedreich ataxia, a neuromuscular condition with symptoms of ataxia, impaired speech, spasticity, and gradual loss of strength and sensation in the arms and legs.
They are solitary, burrowing, nocturnal animals, with chunky bodies, usually short tails, soft, thick fur, and large external cheek pouches used for holding food.
Mutations in the FARS2 gene are associated with combined oxidative phosphorylation deficiency 14 (COXPD14), a severe multisystemic autosomal recessive disorder characterized by neonatal onset of global developmental delay, refractory seizures, and lactic acidosis.
Measurement of eculizumab in serum is used for monitoring and therapy optimization.
In tissues that consume ATP rapidly, especially skeletal muscles, but also the brain and smooth muscles, creatine phosphate serves as an energy reservoir for the rapid regeneration of ATP, the major source of energy in biochemical reactions.
Hexachlorobenzene can inflame the skin, eyes and mucous membrane while recurrent exposure in and around the mouth can cause skin lesions and liver disease.
When infection rates reach epidemic proportions, hospitalization of children and elderly patients rises as does the mortality rates of elderly patients.
Japanese Encephalitis, previously known as Japanese B encephalitis to distinguish it from von Economo's A encephalitis) is a disease caused by the mosquito -borne Japanese Encephalitis Virus.
In Thromboelastography, the coagulation index is calculated from the reaction time (R - the time to initial clot formation), the clot formation rate (K - the time from initial clot formation to a fixed level of clot firmness), the angle (A - the angle formed by the early slope of the clot) and the maximum amplitude (MA - the greatest width of the clot)
Prostate cancer patients with elevated levels of chromogranin A correlate with poor prognosis.
Rosemary (Rosmarinus officinalis) is a woody, perennial herb with fragrant evergreen needle-like leaves.
A high THC/CBD ratio results in euphoric and anxiolytic effects, while a low THC/CBD ratio results in sedative effects.
Patients with Hurler syndrome typically die before the age of 10.
Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been found for this gene.
A section to capture risk evaluation and mitigation strategies (REMS) risk addressed, to standardize REMS information for inclusion into pharmacy systems.
It is well known as a naturally occurring epiphyte or endophyte of a wide range of plant species (e.g. apple, grape, cucumber, green beans, cabbage) without causing any diseases.
As a depressant, it alters cerebral function causing typical symptoms such as impaired thought, clouded judgment, and changed behavior.
Polyspecific organic cation transporters in the liver, kidney, intestine, and other organs are critical for elimination of many endogenous small organic cations as well as a wide array of drugs and environmental toxins.
The M antigen is a well-known glycoprotein used as a diagnostic antigen for acute histoplasmosis as it induces the first precipitins during disease.
Compared with the nerve agent sarin, VX is considered to be much more toxic by entry through the skin and somewhat more toxic by inhalation.
Strains of this complex have also been associated with childhood lymphadenitis and AIDS; M. avium alone causes tuberculosis in a variety of birds and other animals, including pigs.
MCTs may be useful as a dietary substitute in a variety of clinical disorders.
When the patient identity for a specimen (especially paraffin-embedded material) needs to be verified, a panel of 12 microsatellite markers that recognize highly variable regions of human DNA PCR-based assay can be used for identification.
The term opiate refers to the alkaloids found in opium, an extract from the seed pods of the opium poppy (Papaver somniferum L.).
The absence of prekallikrein in plasma leads to Fletcher factor deficiency, a congenital disease.
The majority of the antigens within this system represent products of gene cross-over, point mutations or deletions within one or both genes.
Spices may uncommonly induce symptoms of food allergy in sensitised individuals.
It plays a key role in angiogenesis, tumorogenesis, and tissue regeneration.
Allopurinol specifically interacts with HLA-B*58:01 and alters the repertoire of self-peptides that are presented to T lymphocytes, which activates an immune reaction known as severe cutaneous adverse reactions (SCAR), including drug hypersensitivity syndrome, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, and toxic epidermal necrolysis.
Chromosomal translocation t(1;19)(q23.3;p13.3) PBX1/TCF3 is caused by a breakpoint in 19p13.3 and occurs in two different forms: 1) a balanced form found in one fourth of cases with a der(1) and a der(19) and 2) an unbalanced form found in 3/4 cases with 2 normal chromosomes 1, a der(19), and 1 normal chromosome 19.
It is as sweet as sucrose and used as a noncariogenic sweetener.
It selectively blocks the transcriptional activation of cytokines thereby inhibiting cytokine production.
The disease can cause red ichy swellings below the skin which is known as Calabar swellings.
The binding domains are located in the carboxy-terminus of the protein and are positively-charged (allowing it to bind to the negatively-charged microtubule).
Trichophyton concentricum, for example, is endemic on Pacific Islands, Southeast Asia, and Central America.
(If the nucleus is not yet bent, then it is likely a myelocyte.)
Abnormal intracellular inclusions, composed of denatured hemoglobin, found on the membrane of red blood cells.
Other symptoms may include malaise, retro-orbital headache, photophobia, weakness, anorexia, nausea, and light-headedness.
a-lactalbumin (Alpha-lactalbumin) (ALA) is one of the major allergens in Cow's milk and represents about 25% of Lactoserum (Whey) proteins and approximately 5% of Cow's milk protein.
Other uses include; treatment for episodes of mania or mixed episodes in adults, teenagers, and children 10 years of age and older with bipolar disorder, as an antidepressant to treat depression when symptoms cannot be controlled by the antidepressant alone, and to treat children 6 to 17 years of age who have autistic disorder.
The ACADS gene (acyl-CoA dehydrogenase, C-2 to C-3 short chain) is located on chromosome 12q24.31.
Azinphos-methyl, or AZM, is a general organophosphate pesticide used on nuts, vegetables, and fruits.
Pupillary distance (interpupillary distance, binocular pupillary distance) is the distance between the midpoint of one pupil to the midpoint of the other pupil.
Hippurate tests are qualitative assays used for determining the ability of bacteria to enzymatically hydrolyze sodium hippurate.
p63 -/- mice have several developmental defects which include the lack of limbs and other tissues, such as teeth and mammary glands, which develop as a result of interactions between mesenchyme and epithelium.
Myoglobin casts are seen in patients with myoglobinuria as a result of acute muscle damage, which may lead to acute renal failure.
This allows for the selective toxicity to bacterial cells (or any cell dependent on synthesizing folic acid) over human cells.
The T-cell receptor (TCR) is a cell-surface receptor that is composed of two polypeptide chains that are linked by a disulfide bond.
The genus Artocarpus contains A. altilis (Breadfruit) and A. heterophyllus (Jack fruit).
This gene encodes a member of the homeodomain-containing superfamily of transcription factors.
The mode of transmission is believed to be HeV particles in bat urine that are directly taken up by an intermediate host.
It is used to study the carcinogenicity and mutagenicity of aromatic amines.
Neurospora species are molds with broadly spreading colonies, with abundant production of ascomata.
The RRDR is surrounded by 12 amino acids, 11 of which have been linked to RIF mutations.
To date, three primary AZF regions have been named: AZFa, AZFb, and AZFc.
The second, noble rot, occurs when drier conditions follow wetter, and can result in distinctive sweet dessert wines, such as Sauternes or the Aszú of Tokaj.
This gene encodes a protein which belongs to the GATA family of transcription factors.
Dent disease is characterized by low molecular weight proteinuria, hypercalciuria, kidney stones, calcification of renal tissue and progressive renal failure.
Characteristic features of PWS include diminished fetal activity, obesity, hypotonia, developmental delay, short stature, hypogonadotropic hypogonadism, strabismus, and small hands and feet.
The cytoplasmic portion of Band 3 communicates with ankyrin and protein 4.2 that are crosslinked with the spectrin-based cytoskeleton that acts to stabilize the cell membrane.
A plant species of the family Poaceae that is cultivated world-wide for its edible seeds.
Asthma therapy consists of suppressing chronic and persistent airway inflammation.
Analysis of the TRBV repertoire, including the number of gene families present and their relative proportions can be used to evaluate primary immunodeficiencies, monitor immune reconstitution after hematopoietic steam cell transplantation, and assess temporal repertoire changes in autoimmune diseases and viral infections.
They share similar molecular characteristics with comparable sizes (308 kD for tcdA and 269 for tcdB) and 63% homology in their amino acid sequences.
The initial symptoms of chronic hexane toxicity, attributable to hexane-2,5-dione, are tingling and cramps in the arms and legs, followed by general muscular weakness.
It was discovered in 1909 in Brazil by Carlos Chagas.
It is also an intermediate in the metabolism of alcohol.
Immediate hypersensitivity reaction: pharyngeal pruritis, oedema of the lips, dyspnoea, wheezing, dysphagia and dysphonia have been reported.
Infection with Babesia duncani tends to cause symptoms that are moderate to severe.
NCF1 is a subunit of a group of proteins that comprise the enzyme NADPH oxidase.
The protein encoded by this gene is targeted to the inner mitochondrial membrane where it catalyzes the first step of the mitochondrial fatty acid beta-oxidation pathway.
Exchange transfusion is used in the treatment of a number of diseases, including: Sickle cell disease, Thrombotic Thrombocytopenic purpura (TTP), Hemolytic disease of the newborn.
NAA gives off the largest signal in magnetic resonance spectroscopy of the human brain, and the levels measured there are decreased in numerous neuropathological conditions ranging from brain injury to stroke to Alzheimer's disease.
Methotrexate (MTX) is a drug that is used to treat certain types of cancer as well as auto-immune diseases, including rheumatoid arthritis (RA), systemic lupus erythematosus and psoriasis.
TAFI (Thrombin Activatable Fibrinolysis Inhibitor) is a glycoprotein of a molecular weight of approximately 60,000 daltons and it belongs to the metalloprotease family, synthesized in the liver, and circulates in blood as a proenzyme without biological activity.
Ustekinumab (UST) is a human immunoglobulin G1κ (IgG1κ) that binds sub-unit p40 of interleukin-12 (IL-12) and interleukin-23 (IL-23).
Triazole antifungal agent that is used to treat oropharyngeal candidiasis and cryptococcal meningitis in AIDS.
Phylogenetic analyses show that the viruses most closely related to the two strains of HIV-2 which spread considerably in humans (HIV-2 groups A and B) are the SIVsmm found in the sooty mangabeys of the Tai forest, in western Ivory Coast.
Information from LOINC partner 1 and Wikipedia 2007 11 19.
Galactose is a monosaccharide constituent, together with glucose, of the disaccharide lactose.
AmpC beta-lactamases (AmpCs) are resistance enzymes produced by pathogenic organisms such as E. coli.
Pseudomonas aeruginosa is an important opportunistic pathogen that causes severe respiratory infection.
This gene encodes a nucleic-acid binding protein with seven zinc-finger domains.
Chloric acid, HClO3, is an oxoacid of chlorine, and the formal precursor of chlorate salts.
Calcified elastic fibers are found in various disease states, including tuberculosis.
Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants that encode different isoforms of this gene have been reported, but the full-length natures of only some have been determined.
The alpha form is a naturally-occurring metabolite of naloxone, and both the alpha and beta forms can be synethetically manufactured.
HTLV-II has some association with neoplasia involving CD8 T lymphocytes.
A 206-amino-acid fragment in the alpha chain (672-1663) of C3b.
Their role is to phagocytize (engulf and then digest) cellular debris and pathogens, and to stimulate lymphocytes and other immune cells to respond to a foreign antigen.
Industrially, fatty acids are produced by the hydrolysis of the ester linkages in a fat or biological oil (both of which are triglycerides), with the removal of glycerol.
Clomethiazole is a drug with sedative, hypnotic, and anticonvulsant properties.
The authors of a publication on the effects of siRNA-mediated sacsin knockdown concluded that sacsin protects against mutant ataxin-1 and suggest that "the large multi-domain sacsin protein is able to recruit Hsp70 chaperone action and has the potential to regulate the effects of other ataxia proteins" (Parfitt et al., ).
Opium comes in chunks and powder and may be eaten or smoked.
Therefore, the usual dose in an adult patient with bleeding and a platelet count below 20,000/uL is 6-8 units of random donor platelets.
Along with expected sedative effects of relaxation and drowsiness ethchlorvynol can cause skin rashes, faintness, restlessness and euphoria.
Specific recognition of N-acetyl-lysine is a conserved function of all bromodomains found in different proteins, recognized as an emerging intracellular signaling mechanism that plays critical roles in regulating gene transcription, cell-cycle progression, apoptosis, DNA repair, and cytoskeletal organization.
Because the physiological activity of the 3' epimer is likely less than that of 25-hydroxyvitaminD3, it some believe it is important to measure it.
In terms of markers, the cells of interest are those that EpCAM+ CK-PE+ PAPI+ (to be sure that they are cells) and CD45-APC negative (to exclude white cells.
Honeybee is the only stinging Hymenoptera that almost always leaves its fluked stinger in the skin of the victim.
Cow's milk is one of the first foreign proteins infants are exposed to and is one of the most common food allergens.
The CSTB gene (cystatin B (stefin B)) is located on chromosome 21q22.3.
In contrast to phenol, t,t-muconic acid is a physiological component of urine and thus provides a higher diagnostic specificity than phenol.
Bacteriostatic against actively growing TB bacilli, it inhibits RNA synthesis and bacterial growth.
It may also be used as a test for liver function.
It is predominantly expressed in the liver and secreted in plasma.
This disease is not directly contagious, but is known to be spread by insect vectors.
CD64 is encoded by 3 genes (FCγRI A-C), one for the transmembrane region and the other 2 for the Ig-like domains.
ADM is a 52-amino acid peptide with various physiological functions, including vasodilation, positive inotropic effects, diuresis, natriuresis, and bronchodilation
While it is most commonly known in association with Alzheimer's disease, it does not exist specifically to cause disease.
Thus, finely granular casts show a further degeneration of granules that have become much smaller in size than the coarse type.
Chemically, linoleic acid is a carboxylic acid with an 18-carbon chain and two cis double bonds; the first double bond is located at the sixth carbon from the omega end.
It has been detected in smokers urine (about 1% of total nicotine and metabolites).
Ethoheptazine (trade name Zactane) is an opioid analgesic from the phenazepine family and is related to other drugs such as proheptazine.
Interferon-gamma (IFN-γ) is a dimerized soluble cytokine that is the only member of the type II class of interferons.
It is a constituent of the ALTERNATIVE PATHWAY C3 CONVERTASE (C3bBb), and COMPLEMENT C5 CONVERTASES in both the classical (C4b2a3b) and the alternative (C3bBb3b) pathway.
It is also a fungicide, herbicide, acaricide and wood preservative.
Each of these matabolites can be further fractionated into their 3"-epimers.
The drug is typically sprayed on botanical material and smoked, although it can be ingested in liquid or powder form.
Most of the cohesin complexes dissociate from the chromosomes before mitosis, although those complexes at the kinetochore remain.
Serovars 1, 3, 6, and 14 have been reclassed into a separate species ureaplasma parvum.
Malic acid is an organic compound with the formula HO2CCH2CHOHCO2H. This dicarboxylic acid is the active ingredient in many sour or tart foods.
Aspergillus fumigatus is an opportunistic fungus causing allergic and invasive aspergillosis in humans and animals.
It has also been used to treat symptoms of opiate withdrawl, including muscle cramps and muscle pain as well as the intense shivering often experienced.
Pea probably originated in south-western Asia, but it spread nearly throughout the world.
The thymus is only active through puberty, after which it slowly shrinks throughout life until at age 75 has mostly been replaced by fat.
The Proximal Isovelocity Surface Area (PISA) method is based on convergent flow dynamics and the Continuity Principle.
It can also increase the risk for cancer in cases in which the body is extremely deficient in folate.
The ITGA2B gene (integrin, alpha 2b (platelet glycoprotein IIb of IIb/IIIa complex, antigen CD41)) is located on chromosome 17q21.32.
Infant botulism occurs in a small number of susceptible infants each year who become infected when C. botulinum or C. baratii bacteria grow in their intestinal tract.
It is a common diarrheal virus in pigs of all ages.
Metabolic acidosis and tyrosinemia are transient, and symptoms improve within the first year of life.
Methylphenidate (brand name Ritalin) is a central nervous system (CNS) stimulant used in the treatment of attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD).
More than 80 different mutations in this gene have been reported; most mutations are related to amyloid deposition, affecting predominantly peripheral nerve and/or the heart, and a small portion of the gene mutations is non-amyloidogenic.
FGFR family members differ from one another in their ligand affinities and tissue distribution.
Identification of specific antineuronal autoantibodies may direct evaluation for underlying malignancy.
Viruses of this genus cause generalized infections and a rash in some hosts.
The drug is typically sprayed on botanical material and smoked, although it can be ingested in liquid or powder form.
Aripiprazole (brand name Abilify) is in the atypical antipsychotics drug class and used to treat the symptoms of schizophrenia in adults and teenagers.
We include proBNP as the a related name for NT-proBNP so that people who call it proBNP will find it in LOINC.
The "Inflammatory Bowel Disease Action Plan" is a communication tool medical providers use to inform school staff of a patient's Inflammatory Bowel Disease diagnosis and treatment protocol.
History and physical (H&P) note is a medical report that documents the current and past conditions of the patient.
The presence of A at codon 136 has been associated with increased resistance to scrapie.
Succinic acid is a dicarboxylic acid that increases due to a riboflavin or coenzyme Q-10 deficiency or bacterial conversion of glutamine to succicinic acid in the gastrointestinal tract.
Stroke volume is the volume of blood pumped from one ventricle of the heart during a single beat.
A parasitic hemoflagellate of the subgenus Leishmania leishmania that infects man and animals and causes visceral leishmaniasis (LEISHMANIASIS, VISCERAL).
Prior to cholestane-3beta,5alpha,6beta-triol and 7-ketocholesterol, filipin staining of skin biopsy material was the assay of choice, although it was cumbersome, insensitive, and not widely avaialble .
In addition, the common resistance-conferring mutations of HCV genotype 1 NS3 have been shown to confer less resistance to voxilprevir than to other protease inhibitors.
An antidiuretic is an agent or drug that, administered to an organism, helps control body water balance by reducing urination, opposing diuresis.
Drug therapy through parenteral administration is the main route of exposure to penicillin G.
Two other genes have been identified, AMPD2 and AMPD3, for the liver- and erythrocyte-specific isoforms, respectively.
This group of viruses has also been referred to as caliciviruses (because of their virus family name) and as small round structured viruses, or SRSVs (because of their morphologic features).
They are peptides used by immune and inflammatory cells to communicate and control cell operations.
Uroporphyrinogen III synthase is an enzyme involved in the fourth step of porphyrin metabolism, involved in the conversion of hydroxymethyl bilane into uroporphyrinogen III.
The list includes fentanyl analogs such as acetylfentanyl, butyrfentanyl, 4-methoxybutyrylfentanyl, 4-methylphenethylacetylfentanyl, furanylfentanyl, carfentanil (and its major metabolite norcarfentanil), ocfentanil, acrylfentanyl, 3-methylfentanyl and 4-fluorobutyrylfentanyl.
They tend to cluster around the central region of Vietnam.
While high-dose MTX in the treatment of malignancy is due to the direct effect on tetrahydrofolate reductase and DNA synthesis, the long-term immune modulation of low-dose MTX therapy appears to be related to multiple metabolic effects of the MTX PGs.
Treatment protocol during school hours: medication orders (type medication, dosage amount and time), 4.
Abnormal head positions can include chin up or down, head tilt to the right or left, face turns to the right or left, or a combination of any of these.
The type of bed used for an infant in the neonatal intensive care unit or newborn nursery.
The childhood form is associated with progressive neurodegeneration, seizures, and spasticity beginning between ages 2 and 4, with death by age 15.
This gene encodes a membrane transporter that exports free sialic acids that have been cleaved off of cell surface lipids and proteins from lysosomes.
It is a pathogen of swine but rarely occurs in humans.
3-Hydroxyisovaleric acid is a normal human metabolite excreted in the urine.
Epidermal allergen mix 72 (EX72) detects budgerigar feather (e78), canary feather (e201), finch feather (e214), parakeet feather (e196), and parrot feather (e213) IgE antibodies.
Maximum flow rates may be diminished with obstruction at various points of the upper airway.
Giles et al., in 1970, identified the antithetical antibody, anti-Cob, and the blood group system was established.
The commercial syrup used for treatment of constipation is dyed yellow-orange.
Mutations in this gene are associated with fatal infantile encephalocardiomyopathy and myopia 6.
It is a common pest of dry plant produce - especially cereals - and found around the world.
Four alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms have been found for this gene.
Amaranthus tuberculatus, commonly known as tall waterhemp or roughfruit amaranth, is a species of flowering plant.
It possesses strong immunosuppressive activity by preventing the activation by of T-lymphocytes in response to antigenic or mitogenic stimulation.
Approximately 50% of cases of autosomal recessive non-syndromic deafness are cause by mutations in the GJB2 gene, with 35delG being the most common.
The resulting complex provides a catalytic event that is responsible for initiation of the coagulation protease cascades by specific limited proteolysis.
CD24, a glycoprotein expressed at the surface of most B lymphocytes and differentiating neuroblasts.
The FUS gene (FUS RNA binding protein) is located on chromosome 16p11.2.
Resistance to high concentration means that the organism will be resistant when combined with a beta-lactam antibiotic.
A species of ENTEROVIRUS associated with outbreaks of aseptic meningitis (MENINGITIS, ASEPTIC).
A plant species of the family FABACEAE widely cultivated for animal feed.
Orciprenaline (INN, also known as metaproterenol) is a bronchodilator used in the treatment of asthma.
An antimetabolite that is converted to deoxyuridine triphosphate during DNA synthesis.
A yellow metallic element with the atomic symbol Au, atomic number 79, and atomic weight 197.
Establishments that process blood products regulated by the FDA need to register with the FDA.
Multiple alternatively spliced variants, encoding the same protein, have been identified.
The ACT is a point of care test used to monitor patients receiving high doses of heparin in an acute setting, while partial thromboplastin time (PTT) is used to monitor patients who are on lower, long-term therapeutic doses of heparin.
Dihydroorotic acid is an intermediate in the metabolism of pyrimidine.
Bacterial vaginosis (BV) is the most common cause of vaginal infection.
Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms.
Symptoms of poison can be apparent within 15 minutes of exposure, but can be delayed for up to 2 days.
Normally, only the paternal copy of these genes is active due to genomic imprinting, and in PWS, the paternal copy of these genes is missing.
Atopic dermatitis has been seen in patients with IgE antibodies to trout.
The pycnidia are black and depressed in the tissues of the host.
It is a natural amino acid found in muscles and other body tissues.
Factor XIII activity detects factor XIII specific coagulation factor activity.
Germination of spores and growth of the fungus appear to be essential for the production of this allergen.
Such cells can also be detected in the circulating blood and their numbers can be increased with the various marrow stimulating factors.
Matrix metallopeptidase 9 (gelatinase B, 92kDa gelatinase, 92kDa type IV collagenase), also known as MMP9, is an enzyme which in humans is encoded by the MMP9 gene.
It is the principal end product of protein catabolism and constitutes about one half of the total urinary solids.
Wine vinegar tends to have a lower acidity than that of white or cider vinegars.
It is used in the treatment of depression, panic disorders and bipolar disorder.
It can be found in heated edible oils such as sunflower and palm oils and is a marker for oxidative stress.
Deletion of 17p13 affects the p53 tumor suppressor gene (TP53) and has been associated with disease progression and reduced survival.
Constitutive expression of BCL2, such as in the case of translocation of BCL2 to Ig heavy chain locus, is thought to be the cause of follicular lymphoma.
Lysozyme is one of the antimicrobial agents found in human milk, and is also present in spleen, lung, kidney, white blood cells, plasma, saliva, and tears.
Titanium is used in strong light-weight alloys (most notably with iron and aluminium), and in powdered form to other materials, such as graphite composites.
Malt may uncommonly induce symptoms of food allergy in sensitised individuals, including Baker's asthma, urticaria, facial itching, Quincke edema, systemic symptoms and anaphylaxis.
It is estimated that about half of the oxalate in urine comes from ascorbic acid (vitamin C), which is a precursor to oxalate.
These molecules are responsible for presenting peptides to immune cells.
LV dyssynchrony leads to decreased pumping efficiency and therefore a decrease in the LV ejection fraction, and is significantly correlated with LV systolic dysfunction in patients with heart failure independent of myocardial perfusion.
Prader-Willi syndrome (PWS) and Angelman syndrome (AS) are rare genetic disorders in which several genes (e.g. SNRPN, UBE3A) on chromosome 15(q11-13) are deleted or unexpressed.
Along with bacteria, fungi are the primary decomposers of dead organic matter in most terrestrial ecosystems.
This protein localizes to the endoplasmic reticulum and is known to metabolize many xenobiotics, including the anticonvulsive drug mephenytoin, omeprazole, diazepam and some barbiturates.
It is isomeric with 2-hydroxybenzoic acid, known as salicylic acid, a precursor to aspirin.
Clotting time (CT) is the time for a clot to reach an amplitude of 2 mm.
Palmitoleylcarnitine is a secondary marker for Very long-chain acyl-CoA dehydrogenase deficiency, Long-chain L-3-Hydroxy dehydrogenase deficiency, Trifunctional protein deficiency, Carnitine acylcarnitine translocase deficiency, and Carnitine palmitoyltransferase II deficiency.
It is a colorless, water-white liquid with a banana-like, fruity odor.
Phorate is an organophosphate insecticide and acaricide that is used to control sucking and chewing insects, leafhoppers, leafminers, mites, nematodes, and rootworms.
Central apnea is a reduction or absence of respiratory airflow without respiratory effort.
This condition may be worsened by periods of fasting or infections that increase the body's demand for energy.
Like C9, this protein creates transmembrane tubules and is capable of lysing non-specifically a variety of target cells.
They increase protein synthesis within cells, which results in the buildup of cellular tissue (anabolism), especially in muscles.
Timothy grass is one of the most important causes of allergic rhinitis, asthma and allergic conjunctivitis during summer in cool temperate climates.
The protein includes two functional domains: the heparin binding-domain at the N-terminus of the mature protein, and the reactive site domain at the C-terminus.
It is noteworthy in part for the fact that at low dosages, it is found much more effective by women than by men, and may even increase pain in men, leading to its discontinuation in the UK in 2003.
Stage II - the tumor has spread to the optic nerve or the sclera, which is the white part of the eye.
Family members encode integral membrane proteins that mediate calcium-dependent cell-cell adhesion.
A radiant warmer is an open bed, an incubator is a closed bed, and an incubator that can serve as a radiant warmer is a combination bed.
The slit diaphragm is thought to function as an ultrafilter to exclude albumin and other plasma macromolecules in the formation of urine.
Silicates comprise the majority of the earth's crust, as well as most planets and moons.
These proteins are commonly found in mammalian milk, making up 80% of the proteins in cow milk and between 20% and 45% of the proteins in human milk.
Most patients require multiple treatments over many years and some develop tolerance to the injections due to the development of neutralizing antibodies to the toxin.
This colorless gas is widely used as a fuel and a chemical building block.
The contrast ratio is the percent contrast at which a patient's visual acuity was measured.
For detecting AMI, myoglobin must be measured within the first 0-4 hr, the time period in which CK-MB and possibly cardiac troponin are still within their reference range.
Azithromycin (brand names Zithromax ® in Italy; Zmax ®; Sumamed ®; Aztrin ®) is one of the world's best-selling antibiotics, and is derived from erythromycin ; however, it differs chemically from erythromycin in that a methyl -substituted nitrogen atom is incorporated into the lactone ring, thus making the lactone ring 15-membered.
Cumene is the common name for isopropylbenzene, an organic compound that is an aromatic hydrocarbon.
Biotinidase is a human enzyme coded for by the BTD gene.
Defects in this gene are the cause of faciogenital dysplasia and X-linked mental retardation, syndromatic 16.
E. dispar is non-invasive commensal in the intestine of humans.
Initially it was believed that these might be white cell or HLA antibodies.
This mutation is seen in most patients with polycythemia vera and about half of the patients with essential thromobcytopenia and idiopathic myelofibrosis.
They are considered potential drugs of abuse, although at the time of this writing there is little known about their physiological and toxicological properties.
MET amplification is a biomarker for different types of cancer, including non-small cell lung cancer.
It is also grown as a lawn grass and a house plant, due to its sweet scent, and can be also be found on unimproved pastures and meadows.
This heterocyclic compound has the chemical formula (CH2)4O. As one of the most polar ethers with a wide liquid range, it is a useful solvent.
Two different solutions (Solution A and B) are defined by the United States Pharmacopeia.
OXA carbapenemases also tend to have a reduced hydrolytic efficiency towards penicillins and cephalosporins.
Anthraquinone, also called anthracenedione or dioxoanthracene is an aromatic organic compound with formula C14H8O2, that can be viewed as a diketone derivative of anthracene (with loss of two double bonds in the latter).
3-Hydroxyanthranilic acid is an intermediate in the metabolism of tryptophan.
Anecdotal evidence suggests that clove may induce symptoms of food allergy in sensitised individuals; however, few studies have been reported to date.
Glimepiride is the first third-generation sulfonylurea, and is very potent.
Choices include: 1) Directly measured; 2) Family DNA; 3) Family history; 4) Inferred from population data
That allergen has been identified as Bet v 1 and is an important pollen-associated food allergen in the Northern hemisphere where birch pollen is present.
One example of a Clade nomenclature is the based on year followed by a letter (Nextstrain.org).
It produces phenmetrazine as a major metabolite and has been reported to have been abused as a recreational drug in the past.
Temocillin is a β-lactamase resistant penicillin, marketed as Negaban primarily for the treatment of multiresistant Gram negative bacteria.
U-47700 is an novel synthetic opioid that is a selective μ receptor-agonist with a potency 7.5 times greater than morphine.
Adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH or corticotropin) is a 39 amino acid polypeptide hormone synthesised from pre-opiomelanocortin (POMC).
Amobarbital is a barbiturate that is used as a hypnotic and sedative.
Etacrynic acid is a phenoxyacetic acid derivative containing a ketone and a methylene group.
The test relies on residual cell membrane fragments and plasma lipids to provide a phospholipid surface for coagulation reactions.
The high-affinity receptor FcεRI is a member of the immunoglobulin superfamily (it has two Ig-like domains).
Fragmented red blood cells (rbcs) occur when the rbcs undergo rips and tears from fibrin strands in microcirculation or trauma occurring in macrocirculation.
These names assume that one has already gated to lymphocytes only.
The Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus (MERS-CoV), also termed NCV-2012, EMC/2012 or SARS-like virus, is a Betacoronavirus, a novel coronavirus (nCoV).
HPeVs cause various diseases, including aseptic meningitis, gastroenteritis, encephalitis, acute respiratory illness, and neonatal sepsis-like disease.
Unlike dopamine itself, it can be taken orally and crosses the blood-brain barrier.
Copeptin is used to help diagnose diabetes insipidus and monitor various conditions, including sepsis and cardiovascular diseases.
VRE may be treated with quinupristin/dalfopristin (Synercid) with response rates of approximately 70%.
Next-generation sequencing (NSG) studies have identified mutations in SF3B1 in chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL).
The bananas from a group of cultivars with firmer, starchier fruit, generally used in cooking rather than eaten raw, are typically known as plantains.
Rice may uncommonly induce symptoms of food allergy, asthma, rhinitis, eczema and urticaria in sensitised individuals.
VMA levels are of value for evaluation of hypertension, diagnosis and follow up of neuroblastoma, ganglioneuroma, and ganglioneuroblastoma.
They are released into the circulation during intense erythropoietic stimulation.
The most important species include Phoma beta which is the cause of the heart rot and blight of beets, Phoma batata that produces a dry rot of sweet potato, and Phoma solani.
Hematoporphyrin has been used as an antidepressant and antipsychotic since the 1920s.
They provide two sources of food frequently consumed by humans: their meat, also known as chicken, and eggs.
The names MART-1 and Melan-A were coined by two groups of researchers who independently sequenced the gene for this antigen in 1994.
Ubiquitin is a small (8.5 kDa) regulatory protein that has been found in almost all tissues (ubiquitously) of eukaryotic organisms.
The CNR1 gene (cannabinoid receptor 1 (brain)) is located on chromosome 6q14-q15.
Bacterial casts are observed in patients with infection of kidney.
Sorbitol occurs naturally and is also produced synthetically from glucose.
Chromium is a mineral that humans require in trace amounts, although its mechanisms of action in the body and the amounts needed for optimal health are not well defined.
Future risk assessments for coronary disease will likely include multiple combinations of cardiac risk markers.
The two main clinical presentations of proliferative enteropathy are porcine intestinal adenomatosis (PIA), which affects pigs that are 6-20 weeks old, and proliferative hemorrhagic enteropathy (PHE), which affects 4-12 month olds.
The natural strain calculation is more appropriate than Lagrangian when large deformations are observed.
The enzyme is critical to glycolysis, which supplies the sperm with most of the energy needed to swim.
A species of ALPHAVIRUS isolated in central, eastern, and southern Africa.
Defects in this gene are a cause of hemochromatosis type 4 (HFE4).
Measles, also known as rubeola, is a disease caused by a virus, specifically a paramyxovirus of the genus Morbillivirus.
O-nortramadol (O-desmethyltramadol) is the predominant and active metabolite of tramadol, while the N- form is inactive.
Levels are stimulated by liposaccharide, endotoxins, inflammatory agents, lectin, Tumor Necrosis Factor, and Interferons.
It has sedative, hypnotic and anticonvulsant properties, and was used primarily for the treatment of insomnia.
MIP-1 alpha may be used as a biomarker for inflammatory diseases in the future.
The pulmonary embolism rule-out criteria (PERC) is a clinical decision support tool for identifying patients at low risk for pulmonary embolism (PE).
Hypermethylation of the MGMT gene promoter region causes diminished or silenced expression of the gene, making cells more sensitive to DNA damage and prone to tumor development.
High levels of turbidity are indicative of disorders such as acute viral hepatitis and cirrhosis.
Metanephrine is a metabolite generated when epiniphrine is cleaved by catechol O-methyltransferase.
An ancient disease, it was first recognized as a medical entity by Jakob Heine in 1840.
Mutations in APP associated with early-onset Alzheimer's have been noted to increase the relative production of Aβ42, and thus one suggested avenue of Alzheimer's therapy involves modulating the activity of β and γ secretases to produce mainly Aβ40.
The appearance of abnormally long or short microsatellites in an individual's DNA is referred to as microsatellite instability.
However, recent studies have suggested that indirect agents are highly specific for asthma and may have greater clinical relevance.
It is available orally in generic formulation and as the brand-names Ditropan and Lyrinel XL, as a transdermal patch under the brand name Oxytrol, and as a topical gel under the brand name Gelnique.
Riboflavin, also known as vitamin B2, is an easily absorbed colored micronutrient with a key role in maintaining health in humans and animals.
BIRC3 is thought to be important in the pathophysiology of chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL), based on the observation of loss of function mutations via its role in modulating NF-kb signaling. .
Chromosome anomalies inv(3)(q21;q26.2) and t(3;3)(q21;q26.2) involving the PSMD2 and MECOM genes are found in acute non lymphocytic leukemia (ANLL), often preceeded by myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS).
sST2 concentrations are believed to be associated with cardiovascular stress and fibrosis.
It is secreted from clara cells, non-ciliated cells found in the small airways (bronchioles) of the lungs.
The Environmental Protection Agency has listed toxaphene as a probable human carcinogen.
The antigens that make up the Scianna blood group are Sc1, Sc2, Sc3 and Sc4 (Radin).
That being the case, if a patient tests positive for genotype A, then the virus is most likely due to the vaccine.
The genomic RNA encodes three structural proteins, C (core protein), M (membrane protein), and E (envelope protein).
Butanol or butyl alcohol can refer to any of the four isomeric alcohols of formula C4H9OH: n-Butanol, butan-1-ol, 1-butanol, n-butyl alcohol; Isobutanol, 2-methylpropan-1-ol, isobutyl alcohol; sec-Butanol, butan-2-ol, 2-butanol, sec-butyl alcohol; tert-Butanol, 2-methylpropan-2-ol, tert-butyl alcohol.
There are 24 genotypes of MeV recognized by the World Health Organization that are categorized by the nucleotide sequences of their hemagglutinin (H) and nucleoprotein (N) genes.
Distance from the H-Line (line from Soft Tissue Pogonion to Labrale Superius) to the Superior Labial Sulcus (subnasale)
Most commonly, this resistance is seen in E. faecium and E. faecalis, but also has been recognized in E. raffinosus, E. avium, E. durans, and several other enterococcal species.
The CYP21A2 gene (cytochrome P450, family 21, subfamily A, polypeptide 2) is located on chromosome 6p21.3.
It is reno- and oto-toxic like the other aminoglycoside antibiotics.
Signs include physical exam findings, such as out of range vital signs, measured weight and jaundice and laboratory results, such as electrolytes and liver function tests.
It is one of the ketone bodies produced during ketoacidosis.
The majority of lymphocytes are small and have a thin rim of cytoplasm, 6-9 µm in diameter, about the same size as erythrocytes (diameter 7.5 µm).
Research has shown it may be an effective treatment for alcohol dependence and withdrawal, by inhibiting both withdrawal symptoms and cravings.
The protein encoded by this gene is likely not a ciliary protein but rather has distant sequence homology to type II chaperonins.
Some type-1 diabetic patients are originally diagnosed as having type-2 diabetes due to symptom onset in adulthood, societal obesity, and initial insulin-independence.
Thioacetazone(INN and BAN) is also called thiocetazone, thiacetazone, thiosemicarbazone, benzothiozane or amithiozone(USAN); abbreviated T. Thioacetazone is used in the treatment of tuberculosis; it has only weak activity against Mycobacterium tuberculosis and is only useful in preventing resistance to more powerful drugs like isoniazid and rifampicin.
This is a rate-controlling step of gluconeogenesis, the process by which cells synthesize glucose from metabolic precursors.
It was reported in 2006 that 3-epi-25-Hydroxyvitamin D can be present in clinically significant amounts in very young children.
The Parrot is one of the most common domestic birds, together with Budgerigars and Canaries.
Excess hexagonal phase phospholipid is added to the patient sample before re-running the test.
The ability of the B cell to respond in a specific, yet sensitive manner to the various antigens is achieved with the use of low-affinity antigen receptors.
Fish Bone as a Nidus for Stone Formation in the Common Bile Duct: Report of Two Cases.
Routes of exposure include contaminated air, water, soil, food, and consumer products.
Physiological responses to AMPH use include increased blood pressure, increased heart rate, increased body temperature, relaxed bronchial muscle and depressed appetite.
M. leprae was discovered in 1873 by Armauer Hansen in Bergen, Norway and was the first organism to be associated with a human disease.
The general population risk of Trisomy 13 is about 1 in 16,000 live births, but the risk increases with increasing maternal age.
The enzyme has high activity toward isobutyryl-CoA. Could be an isobutyryl-CoA dehydrogenase that functions in valine catabolism.
Symptoms of chronic C burnetii infection include primarily endocarditis, but also hepatitis and chronic fatigue syndrome.
The variant has been identified as a marker of citalopram response.
Therefore, SLOS and Desmosterolosis patients invariably have elevated levels of cholesterol precursor's 7-dehydrocholesterol (and its spontaneous isomer 8-dehydrocholesterol) and absent desmosterol., .
Ascaris is a genus of parasitic nematode worms known as the "giant intestinal roundworms".
It is a member of the Polygonaceae group of weeds.
Intact insulin molecules as well as fragments of insulin and proinsulin (precursor to insulin) exist in patient specimens.
The human leukocyte antigen B (HLA-B;) plays an important role in how the immune system recognizes and responds to pathogens.
The conversion of T4 to T3 and T3 reverse is inhibited in a wide variety of conditions including fasting, malnutrition, poorly controlled diabetes mellitus, trauma, surgery, and systemic illnesses.
Trichophyton is one of the leading causes of hair, skin, and nail infections in humans.
The M2 transmembrane protein is an ion channel that assists to uncover the virus once it is inside the host cell.
Over the course of several days, atmospheric methanol is oxidized by oxygen with the help of sunlight to carbon dioxide and water.
Patients develop gastrointestinal problems ranging from mild diarrhea to severe pseudomembranous colitis.
Lead is toxic to many organs and tissues including the heart, bones, intestines, kidneys, and reproductive and nervous systems.
The commercial mixtures are clear viscous liquids (the more highly chlorinated mixtures are more viscous, for example, Aroclor 1260 is a sticky resin).
Methicillin-sensitive Staphylococcus aureus (MSSA) is a type of Staph aureus that does not contain the mecA gene and therefore, is still susceptible to methicillin and other beta-lactam antibiotics.
Gentamicin is an aminoglycoside antibiotic, which has a bactericidal mode of action binding to the ribosome and various ribozymes to inhibit protein synthesis.
Dysferlin also known as dystrophy-associated fer-1-like protein is a protein that in humans is encoded by the DYSF gene.
Norepinephrine, a precursor of epinephrine secreted by the adrenal medulla, is a widespread central and autonomic neurotransmitter.
A species of gram-negative bacteria and causative agent of severe bovine ANAPLASMOSIS.
In addition, other kinds of meat may be a risk for patients with this type of sensitivity, as indicated by a case with cat-specific IgE antibodies and exercise-induced anaphylaxis after eating pork or beef.
Ongoing studies are investigating the utility of the p53 antibody being used as a biomarker for the early detection of lung cancer in high risk asymptomatic patients.
Influenza viruses, from the family Orthomyxoviridae, are enveloped negative-strand RNA viruses with segmented genomes containing seven to eight gene segments.
There are six additional known HIV-2 groups, each having been found in just one person.
No longer used widely but when used, serum levels will often be monitored.
Two closely related species are found in the US and one in Brazil.
It is cleaved by the activated component C1S into C4A and C4B.
It is used as a solvent and as an intermediate in the synthesis of 1,1-dichloroethane.
Ciliated cells are simple columnar epithelial cells with cilia, hair-like microtubular projections, which move in a certain wavelike direction.
False ragweed grows over most of the continental United States and is a major source of pollen allergy.
The cytokines have some similar actions to the Growth Factors but Growth Factors regulate proliferation of non-immune cells.
Multiple antibiotic resistance is increasingly common in both S. aureus and CoNS, with the emergence of methicillin-resistant S. aureus (MRSA) able to reach epidemic levels.
HAV has a global distribution, and transmission primarily occurs by the fecal-oral route.
M. edulis has been cultivated in Europe since the 13th century.
The drug is typically sprayed on botanical material and smoked, although it can be ingested in liquid or powder form.
It is given only orally, and it acts within two days.
The activation of T lymphocytes, both in vivo and in vitro, induces expression of CD69.
MAP kinases, also known as extracellular signal-regulated kinases (ERKs), act as an integration point for multiple biochemical signals.
HH is the most common autosomal recessive disease in the Caucasian population.
As a result the genus Pseudomonas includes strains formerly classified in the genera Chryseomonas and Flavimonas.
Healthy fetal pigs are born without immunoglobulins and immunoglobulins from the sow do not cross the placenta.
Latency can be up to 50 years, and is mostly found in South and Central America, the Middle East, China, and the West of the U.S.A. (eg. Arizona, New Mexico and California).
Increased levels of sedoheptulose is associated with nephropathic cystinosis, an autosomal recessive lysosomal storage disease caused by mutations in the nephropathic cystinosis (CTNS) gene.
Johnson grass (Sorghum halepense) produces pollen which often induces hayfever, asthma and conjunctivitis in sensitized individuals.
It is native to the southwestern United States and northern Mexico, where it is a common plant of the local deserts, where it thrives on sandy soil, alkaline environments, and disturbed sites.
The combination drug has high efficacy in treating patients with chronic HCV infection for HCV genotypes 1-6 ("pangenotypic").
Disaturated phosphatidylcholine (DSPC) is the main component of pulmonary surfactant.
ADBICA N-4-hydroxypentyl and ADBICA N-pentanoate are metabolites of 5F-ADBICA and ADBICA (N--1-pentyl-1H-indole-3-carboxamide), also known as ADB-PICA, a synthetic cannabinoid that shows high affinity for cannabinoid CB1 and CB2 receptors.
Their appearance is generally more cigar-shaped and of a higher refractive index than hyaline casts.
Gene knockout studies in mice suggest that it is required for hematopoiesis and maintenance of the developing vascular network.
The levels of ACE in the blood are also used in order to diagnose sarcoidosis.
CD2 (cluster of differentiation 2) is a cell adhesion molecule found on the surface of T cells and natural killer (NK) cells.
Most of the variants are the result of gene recombinations between GYPA and GYPB.
The RET gene is located on the long arm of chromosome 10 at position 11.2.
The FGFR1 gene (fibroblast growth factor receptor 1) is located on chromosome 8p11.23-p11.22.
Plazomicin is an aminoglycoside with activity against gram negative bacilli including those with extended spectum beta lactamase (ESBL), and Klebsiella pneumoniae carbapenemase (KPC).
Examples include neurofibrillary tangles in Alzheimer disease, lewy body in Parkinson disease, pick bodies in Pick's disease, and inclusions in motor neuron disease and Huntington disease.
Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
sdLDL remains in the circulation longer than larger LDL particles, which increases its likelihood of modification including desialylation, glycation, and oxidation that enhance its atherogenicity.
It is an annual plant growing to 50-100 cm tall, with leaves (4-14 cm) on opposite sides; the leaves are broad (5 cm) at the base of the plant, but are progressively narrow to just 1 cm on the flowering stem.
Fenproporex (Perphoxene) is a stimulant drug of the phenethylamine and amphetamine chemical classes which was developed in the 1960s.
Three isoforms have three binding domains and the other three have four binding domains.
The nature of the side chain is indicated by a prefix, as uroporphyrin, hematoporphyrin, etc.
The hydrochloride is available as an aid to smoking cessation treatment.
Immuno-compromised patients are predisposed to chronic or recurrent dermatophyte infections.
Found during lymphocytopoiesis, a prolymphocyte is the immediate precursor of a lymphocyte, derived from a lymphoblast.
Lactulose is used as a test of small intestine bacterial overgrowth syndrome (SIBO).
CV2 autoantibodies are also present in patients with rapidly progressive dementia, and are used to monitor treatment in some cases.
The blaOXA-51- and blaOXA-23-like genes are the two most common resistance genes in A. baumannii and cause resistance to drugs such as ceftazidime, piperacillin, cefepime, nitrofurantoin and ertapenem.
Deficiency of this enzyme leads to abnormally high concentrations of glucosylceramide in the brain in GAUCHER DISEASE. .
Laminins, composed of 3 non identical chains: laminin alpha, beta and gamma (formerly A, B1, and B2, respectively), have a cruciform structure consisting of 3 short arms, each formed by a different chain, and a long arm composed of all 3 chains.
Hippuric acid and methyl hippuric acid are the principal metabolities of toluene and xylene, respectively.
CSF tau phosphorylated at threonine 181 (p-tau181) is a widely used biomarker for Alzheimer disease (AD) and has recently been regarded to reflect β-amyloid and/or p-tau deposition in the AD brain.
Cyn d 1 belongs to Group 1 grass pollen allergens which are the most frequently recognized grass pollen allergens.
There is also evidence that it acts as both a peripheral and a central nervous system neurotransmitter.
The emergence and spread of antimicrobial resistance in the E. cloacae complex has increased the complexity of treating infections due to these organisms.
Pyruvate dehydrogenase (E1) is the first component enzyme of pyruvate dehydrogenase complex (PDC).
Since PNS can be associated with multiple antibodies testing usually includes a panel of PNS antibodies.
It inhibits the activity of coagulation factors Xa and XIa in the presence of protein Z, calcium and phospholipid.
The proteins encoded by BBS gene family members are structurally diverse and the similar phenotypes exhibited by mutations in BBS gene family members is likely due to their shared roles in cilia formation and function.
Coenzyme Q cytochrome c reductase, also called the cytochrome bc1 complex or Complex III, is the third complex in the electron transport chain and plays a critical role in biochemical generation of ATP (oxidative phosphorylation).
Human colostrum has the highest concentration, followed by human milk, then Cow's milk.
It is used as a solvent, and is a counterirritant and has local anesthetic properties but is not used as such.
It is involved in mammalian pigmentation, where it may control skin color variation and act as a determinant of brown or blue eye color.
Chromosome region 4q25 g.111720761T>G (rs10033464) is one of the single nucleotide polymorphisms on chromosome region 4q25 that is associated with atrial fibrillation (AF).
Amino acids are required for the synthesis of body protein and other important nitrogen-containing compounds, such as creatine, peptide hormones, and some neurotransmitters.
The most common causes of this kind of anemia are iron deficiency and thalassemia.
The MCS is a measure of a patient's antibodies against potential donor antigens.
It is inactivated by extended spectrum beta lactamase producing bacteria.
The larger transcript is approximately 13.7 kb and is expressed predominantly in adult and fetal brain whereas the smaller transcript of approximately 10.3 kb is more widely expressed.
Most individuals with Friedreich ataxia have the expanded GAA trinucleotide repeat in both copies of the FXN gene.
Detection of specific markers early in the course of GBS may help guide the plan of care.
Two transcript variants, produced by alternate splicing, differ in their C-terminal ends.
It is a prime cause of allergy in the US, and now in Europe, in particular in the upper Rhône valley, the Balkan states and the Krasnodar district of the Russia.
An increasing TMP in conjunction with decreasing effluent pressure is an indicator of membrane clogging due to protein build-up on the blood side of the filter.
DLBCL can be further subdivided by cell of origin (COO) into germinal center type and non-germinal center (activated B-cell) type, the latter having significantly worse response to certain treatments .
The mutations lead to a reduction or elimination of functional N-acetylglucosamine-6-sulfatase.
Artemia salina is a species of brine shrimp - primitive, aquatic crustaceans that are more closely related to Triops and cladocerans than to true shrimp.
It can also be self-induced in patients with annorexia and bulemia.
In humans it is found primarily in the central nervous system, gastrointestinal tract, and blood platelets.
Thyrotropin consists of two noncovalently linked subunits, alpha and beta.
Voltage-gated sodium channels are transmembrane glycoprotein complexes composed of a large alpha subunit with 24 transmembrane domains and one or more regulatory beta subunits.
When mapping be careful to distinguish the word pyridoxal (A is the 2nd to last letter) from pyridoxol (letter O is the 2nd to last letter).
Mutations in this gene cause ocular albinism type 1, also referred to as Nettleship-Falls type ocular albinism, a severe visual disorder.
Found on all normal, mature T-cells, most thymocytes, minor B-cell subset Associated with B-cell CLL; Nodal small lymphocytic lymphoma; Mantle cell lymphoma; May be absent in peripheral T-cell lymphoma and plasmacytoid lymphoma; Most T-cell neoplasms
Mutations in the TERT gene are associated with various conditions, including dyskeratosis congenita, idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis, breast cancer, cholangiocarcinoma, and melanoma.
Barbiturates offered new treatment to patients with psychiatric and neurological disorders profoundly improving their prognoses.
Salts and esters of glyceric acid are known as glycerates.
Drugs of abuse most often include alcohol, amphetamines, barbiturates, benzodiazepines, cocaine, methaqualone, and opioids.
The globin moiety consists of two alpha and two beta chains.
This is done both on a microscopic and molecular level.
Immature T-cell neoplasms may have cytoplasmic CD3, without cell surface CD3
Glutamine (Gln) is one of the 20 amino acids encoded by the standard genetic code.
Complex I is also considered to be one of the main sites of reactive oxygen species production, which results from electron leaks that can release single electrons to oxygen and give rise to superoxide anion.
A protein phytotoxin from the seeds of Ricinus communis, the castor oil plant.
Allo-tetrahydrocorticosterone (allo-THB) is, among other steroids like pregnanetriol (P3), an important marker in the urinary steroid excretion profile for the occurrence of an adrenal 21-hydroxylase-deficiency.
Despite being restricted to hospitals for several years, due to human travel, the SPM gene is now being seen globally.
IDV appears to predispose animals to bovine respiratory disease and studies indicate that the virus can infect humans, particularly workers who have direct contact with cattle.
The alpha-beta heterodimers of the beta2-integrin family include LFA-1 (CD11a/CD18), Mac-1/CR3 (CD11b/CD18), and p150/95 (CD11c/CD18).(1-4) The CD18 gene, ITGB2, and its product are required for normal expression of the alpha-beta heterodimers.
It is especially effective against Enterobacteriaceae and is resistant to most beta-lactamases.
This gene encodes a protein with a series of six RCC1-like domains (RLDs), characteristic of the highly conserved guanine nucleotide exchange factors.
Adverse side effects of benzodiazepines include sedation, diplopia, dysarthria, ataxia and intellectual impairment.
The etiologic agent of murine typhus (see TYPHUS, ENDEMIC FLEA-BORNE).
Complete loss of the enzyme causes WD in infants who present with vomiting, diarrhea, poor weight gain and hepatomegaly subsequently leading to death.
It doesn't however help to counteract a decrease in blood pH. Ventilation, or breathing, may reverse this condition by removal of carbon dioxide, thus causing a shift up in pH. Deoxyhemoglobin is the form of hemoglobin without the bound oxygen.
Methcathinone could have additive neurotoxic effect to the progression of parkinsonism.
The VP4 and VP7 proteins are pushed to the outermost membrane layer and become the mature triple-layered rotavirus.
Burr cells (echinocytes) appear crenated in a blood smear and have serrated edges over the entire surface of the cell.
Metformin is an oral antidiabetic drug in the biguanide class.
Pholedrine (Paredrinol, Pulsotyl, Veritol), also known as 4-hydroxy-N-methylamphetamine (4-HMA), is a drug that stimulates the sympathetic nervous system.
Chromosome 21 aneuploidy is a chromosome abnormality involving missing or extra chromosomes at chromosome 21.
The test is relevant only in females, where each cell has 2 copies of the X chromosome, only one of which is active.
Rice allergy may induce symptoms of food allergy, asthma, rhinitis, eczema, and urticaria in areas where rice is a staple food, like the Far East.
In vitro studies show that it has a similar spectrum to ceftobiprole, the only other fifth-generation cephalosporin to date, although no head to head clinical trials have been conducted.
Chloramphenicol is effective against a wide variety of microorganisms; it is still very widely used in developing countries because of its low cost.
Tumor embolization blocks the blood supply to a tumor which reduces blood loss during surgery.
Levels of 6-methylthioguanine are indicative of thiopurine S-methyltransferase (TPMT) activity.
Foods with higher amounts of chloride include seaweed, rye, tomatoes, lettuce, celery, and olives.
Typically, a female has two X chromosomes (XX) and a male has one X and one Y (XY).
Anti-GM2 IgM antibodies have been found in patients with Guillain-Barré syndrome that is associated with CMV infection.
Defective alleles of this gene have been associated with the HIV infection resistance.
Pigtail catheter are named for the tight coil at the end of the catheter that resembles a pig's tail.
Immunoblot inhibitions have demonstrated up to 28% bi-directional cross-reactivity between shrimp and scallops, further confirming the major cross-reactive antigen as the respective tropomyosins of shrimps and scallops.
Leptospira interrogans serovar Robinsoni is mainly found in coastal areas of north Queensland in Australia.
Viomycin sulfate (Viocin®) is an polypeptide antibiotic used in the treatment of tuberculosis.
Phospholipids are a major component of all biological membranes, along with glycolipids and cholesterol.
It spread eastward clear to Japan, and was introduced to Europe as early as the 13th century AD.
The encoded protein is one of the enzymes required for targeting substrates for degradation by the proteasome.
It is an essential nutrient to all higher plants and animals where it is found primarily as a cofactor in various enzymes, and in copper-based pigments.
Some lipids are used for energy storage, others serve as structural components of cellular membranes, and some are important hormones.
Restriction fragment length polymorphism (RFLP) analysis is used to determine the "cutting pattern" for an isolate based on three different enzymes with known patterns.
Aldrin is a chlorinated cyclodiene insecticide that was used to control insects living in the soil including termites, corn rootworm, wireworms, rice water weevils, and grasshoppers.
CLL that is negative for ZAP-70 has an average survival of more than 25 years.
This assay may lack specificity for the identification of acute leukemias.
Two closely related species are found in the US and one in Brazil.
In their classic forms, Tay-Sachs and Sandhoff diseases are clinically indistinguishable and are characterized by the onset of progressive neurodegeneration in infancy, followed by paralysis, dementia, and death by age 3.
Most cases of salmonellosis are caused by food infected with S. enterica, which often infects cattle and poultry, though also other animals such as domestic cats and hamsters have also been shown to be sources of infection to humans.
The percentage of body fat in an individual varies according to sex and age.
Saliva testing in some cases provides a more reliable measurement, which allows for a better understanding of the factors regulating oxytocin release.
Parasitism is one version of symbiosis (living together), a phenomenon in which two organisms which are phylogenetically unrelated co-exist over a prolonged period of time, usually their entire life.
B. bronchiseptica causes several diseases in other mammals, including kennel cough and atrophic rhinitis in dogs and pigs, respectively.
Direct human-to-human transmission has been documented to occur perinatally, sexually (primarily through semen), through breastfeeding, blood transfusion and through occupational transmission in the laboratory setting.
Alternative splicing results in several additional transcript variants, some encoding different isoforms and others that have not been fully characterized.
Olea europaea, the Olive tree, has been recognised as one of the most important causes of seasonal respiratory allergy in the Mediterranean area and in other parts of the world where this tree is now grown.
Although TBE is most commonly recognized as a neurological disorder, mild fever can also occur.
Eszopiclone has insignificant anxiolytic activity and shows no evidence of causing increased liver enzymes in the blood.
Indeed, hA3G belongs to a family of vertebrate proteins that contain one or two copies of a signature sequence motif unique to cytidine deaminases (CTDAs).
Mycobacterium tuberculosis complex immunogenic protein MPB64 is a secreted protein that is specific for the M. tuberculosis complex.
A species of bacteria found in the marine environment, sea foods, and the feces of patients with acute enteritis.
When it was discovered to be a bioaccumulative pollutant in 1976, it was banned from use in the United States.
Propranolol is commonly marketed by Wyeth under the trade name Inderal.
Ricin has been used experimentally in medicine to kill cancer cells.
The heparin dose response is used to determine the appropriate amount of heparin needed to increase the patient's activated clotting time to the target level used by the hospital.
It is primarily metabolized by serum albumin, and does not affect cytochrome P450 metabolic activity.
Tumor necrosis factor (TNF, cachexin or cachectin and formally known as tumor necrosis factor-alpha) is a cytokine involved in systemic inflammation and is a member of a group of cytokines that stimulate the acute phase reaction.
These changes are characterized by nuclear hypolobulation (pseudo Pelger-Huët) and hypersegmentation, cytoplasmic hypo-/agranularity, giant forms and cytoplasmic-nuclear maturation asynchrony.
The ACSL4 gene (acyl-CoA synthetase long-chain family member 4) is located on chromosome Xq22.3-q23.
Prism lenses are commonly used to treat diplopia and strabismus.
Other beta-hemolytic groups include C, D (enterococci), F, G, and H.
Mefenorex produces amphetamine as a metabolite, and has been withdrawn in many countries despite having only mild stimulant effects and relatively little abuse potential.
Ammonia (NH3) is produced in the body as a byproduct of the metabolism of amino acids and other compounds, is processed in the liver to form urea which is ultimately eliminated in the urine.
The Burkholderia (previously part of Pseudomonas) genus name refers to a group of virtually ubiquitous gram-negative, motile, obligately aerobic rod-shaped bacteria including both animal/human (see above) and plant pathogens as well as some environmentally-important species.
FAEEs are also thought to be the toxic mediator of alcohol in fetal alcohol syndrome (FAS).
The enzyme catalyzing the transfer of 2-deoxy-D-ribose from thymidine to orthophosphate, thereby liberating thymidine. .
In general, these organisms tend to be more virulent for laboratory animals than BRUCELLA ABORTUS and may cause fatal infections.
The Kell glycoprotein links via a single disulfide bond to the XK membrane protein that carries the Kx antigen.
Fanconi anemia is a genetically heterogeneous recessive disorder characterized by cytogenetic instability, hypersensitivity to DNA crosslinking agents, increased chromosomal breakage, and defective DNA repair.
These granules in mast cells are smaller and more round and regular than basophilic granules and release histamine upon stimulation.
Medications called ACE inhibitors block the conversion of angiotensin I to angiotensin II in order to decrease blood pressure.
Germinal mutations in fumarase are associated with two distinct conditions.
This gene encodes a basic helix-loop-helix domain-containing transcription factor that binds MUE3-type E-box sequences in the promoter of genes.
Silica is the most abundant mineral in the Earth's crust
Its role in the regulation of normal mitochondrial function and in different disease states attributed to mitochondrial dysfunction is not known.
Extended-spectrum beta-lactamases (ESBL) are enzymes produced by some gram negative bacilli that confer resistance to the majority of beta-lactam antibiotics, include the penicillins, cephalosporins and the monobactam aztreonam.
These are labeled with letters and are called A to G types.
Glucose provides energy for cellular processes and aids metabolism within the body.
It often requires treatment with intravenous or intrathecal vancomycin, yet it is debatable as to whether its use has any impact on outcome: the removal of any neurological devices is a crucial part of the management of these infections.
Infection occurs in the respiratory epithelium in both the upper and lower respiratory tract, and the virus can be found in many specimen types, including nasal aspirates, nasal or nasopharyngeal swabs, throat swabs, sputum and tracheal aspirates.
Since it is hydrolyzable to fructose, it is classified as a fructosan.
Viruses cause many different diseases in animals and plants including influenza, AIDS, measles, chicken pox, Zika and other illnesses.
It is commonly found in human and horse intestines as well as soil.
Overproduction of 18-hydroxycortisol is an aid in the detection of Glucocorticoid-remediable aldosteronism which is an inherited form of mineralocorticoid excess associated with moderate overproduction of aldosterone, in which biochemical and clinical remission is dramatically induced by small amounts of glucocorticoids.
A hypha (plural hyphae) is a long, branching filamentous cell of a fungus, and also of unrelated Actinobacteria.
It is associated with an approximately twofold change in response to pegylated interferon-alpha (PEG-IFN-alpha) and ribavirin (RBV) treatments, both among patients of European ancestry (p = 1.06 x 10e-25) and African-Americans (p = 2.06 x 10e-3).
Tartrazine is an azo dye used in many foods an drugs including antibiotics, antihistamines, steroids, bronchodilators and antidepressants (imipramine, desipramine, amitriptyline).
Exposure of humans to infected birds (for example in poultry processing plants) can cause mild conjunctivitis and influenza-like symptoms, but the Newcastle disease virus otherwise poses no hazard to human health.
In postmortem specimens, the parent drug may have been entirely degraded over time to 7-aminoflunitrazepam.
The uidA gene encodes the beta-glucuronidase enzyme in some strains of E. coli.
Due to safety concerns related to drug dependence and overdose and new safer psychoactive medications barbiturate use sharply declined in the 1950s.
Hemolytic disease of the newborn is common in persons with PK deficiency.
Saturated fats occur naturally in many foods, mainly from animal sources, including meat and dairy products.
About 20M kg are produced annually, mainly as a precursor to pesticides, flavors and fragrances.
Animal studies have shown no evidence of teratogenicity at high doses.
Red cedar (J. virginiana) is native to North America east of the Great Plains, from southeastern Canada to the Gulf of Mexico.
It is a constituent of crude oil and refined fuels.
Cabot rings have been observed in a handful of cases in patients with megaloblastic anemia, lead poisoning and other disorders of erythropoiesis.
Total lung capacity (TLC) is the volume of air in the lungs at maximum inflation.
Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
Vitamin B12, bound to protein in food, is released by the activity of hydrochloric acid and gastric protease in the stomach.
It is produced during the process of making gasoline and other fuels from crude oil, in making coal from coal,and as a by-product in the manufacture of styrene.
PCD and LE are types of paraneoplastic neurological syndrome (PNS), an autoimmune disorder that is manifested by progressive neurological syndromes of any combination of the central, peripheral and autonomic nervous systems.
High levels are seen in patients with renal osteodystrophy, chronic renal failure, hyperthyroidism, Paget's disease, estrogen therapy or metastatic skeletal disease.
Sheep, goats, pigs, and other animals of the order Artiodactyla can also be infected.
These methods include laser capture, microdissection under microscopy, manual dissection, and coring from block.
Additional alternatively spliced transcripts may exist but the products of these transcripts have not been verified experimentally.
TTR misfolding and aggregation is known to be associated with the amyloid diseases, senile systemic amyloidosis (SSA), familial amyloid polyneuropathy (FAP), and familial amyloid cardiomyopathy (FAC).
It is generally prepared from alkyl ethers of ESTRADIOL to resemble TESTOSTERONE but less one carbon at the 19 position.
It turns yellowish on exposure to air and absorbs oxygen and carbon dioxide.
A carbonic anhydrase inhibitor that is used as a diuretic and in the treatment of glaucoma.
Monitoring the HbA1c in type-1 diabetic patients may improve treatment.
PPIV1 has not been cultured in cells but it can be seen in respiratory tissue using in situ hybridization and quantified using RT-PCR assays.
There are two different types of fiber, soluble and insoluble.
It is precipitated by acids and by rennet, a proteolytic enzyme typically obtained from the stomachs of calves.
It is intended to support ventilation in a non-invasive way.
MEN2B mutations result in overactive RET protein that can transmit signals without first attaching to growth factors outside the cell.
This gene has been found to be mutated or translocated in many cancers including acute myeloid leukemia, and expansion of CGG repeats in the 5' UTR has been associated with Jacobsen syndrome.
Helminthosporium solani (previously known as Spondylocladium atrovirens) is a plant pathogen.
It has also been identified as a biomarker for mitochondrial disorders and has been found to be more specific for disorders due to defects in mitochondrial translation and DNA maintenance.
Oxycodone is metabolized to α and β oxycodol; oxymorphone, then α and β oxymorphol and noroxymorphone; and noroxycodone, then α and β noroxycodol and noroxymorphone (N-desmethyloxycodone).
Palmitic acid,CH3(CH2)14COOH or hexadecanoic acid in IUPAC nomenclature, is one of the most common saturated fatty acids found in animals and plants.
It is used in combination with other antiviral drugs in the treatment of HIV in both adults and children.
Other carnivores, for example, the fox], may also be definitive hosts.
The Queen palm is a graceful, fast-growing Palm, native to Brazil, Paraguay and northern Argentina.
PEDv causes viral enteritis, which leads to the destruction of villus enterocytes in pigs of all ages.
The edible seeds (from cultivated varieties of the plant) are employed as a protein-rich vegetable or savoury dish in all of the ways that cooked beans are used.
It is native to both northeast and central China and Taiwan.
The protein encoded by this gene is a G protein-coupled receptor that is expressed in the parathyroid hormone (PTH)-producing chief cells of the parathyroid gland, and the cells lining the kidney tubule.
In children, the baseline cholesterol, 8-DHC levels, and cholesterol levels following supplementation does not correlate with the presence or severity of autistic symptoms.
Menivphos is highly toxic, affecting the central nervous system, respiratory system and eyes.
In the presence of factor III and calcium ions, the activated factor then further activates the coagulation cascade by converting factor IX to factor IXa and/or factor X to factor Xa.
but if parasite counts are high and patients are severe, then infections should be treated as intensively as for severe falcipaum malaria.
Tigecycline (INN) is a glycylcycline antibiotic marketed under the brand name Tygacil.
This gene has been implicated in regulation of development, differentiation, apoptosis, granulopoeisis, and transcription of clock genes.
PRG2 is a 117-residue protein that predominates in eosinophil granules.
This genetic change also has been found in people with Leber hereditary optic neuropathy and a movement disorder called dystonia, which involves involuntary muscle contractions, tremors, and other uncontrolled movements.
Other than supportive therapy, there is no treatment for infection with TOSV.
They are peptides used by immune and inflammatory cells to communicate and control cell operations.
It is now grown in more than 100 countries in tropical, sub-tropical and temperate climates.
The most common isoforms are Aβ40 and Aβ42; the shorter form is typically produced by cleavage that occurs in the endoplasmic reticulum, while the longer form is produced by cleavage in the trans-Golgi network.
Genotypic detection of Varicella zoster virus resistance to antivirals is based on ORF36 (thymidine kinase, TK) and ORF28 (DNA polymerase, Pol) gene sequencing.
Red kidney bean does not commonly induce symptoms of food allergy in sensitised individuals, but as with other legumes, allergic reactions are possible
Lumpyskin disease is a disease caused by a virus of the family Poxviridae, also known as Neethling virus.
In some cases, labs may require DNA from the parents to ensure markers are informative and provide the most accurate results.
The Aβ40 form is the more common of the two, but Aβ42 is the more fibrillogenic and is thus associated with disease states.
Carbapenemases were formerly believed to derive only from classes A, B, and D, but a class C carbapenemase has been described.
This leads to the destruction of parietal cells, achlorhydria, and failure to produce intrinsic factor, resulting in vitamin B12 malabsorption.
Dopamine is a member of the catecholamine (Neurotransmitters) family in the brain, and is a precursor to epinephrine (adrenaline) and norepinephrine (noradrenaline).
The CDKN2A gene (cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor 2A) is located on chromosome 9p21.
Benzthiazide (BAN/INN, also known as benzothiazide; trade names Aquatag, Dihydrex, Diucen, Edemax, Exna, Foven and others) is a thiazide diuretic used in the treatment of high blood pressure and edema.
The drug is typically sprayed on botanical material and smoked, although it can be ingested in liquid or powder form.
This gene is expressed in the developing nervous system, and in developing eyes.
Trifluoperazine causes less sedation and hypotension compared to other conventional antipsychotics.
Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been identified.
The encoded protein also anchors the actin cytoskeleton and may be responsible for transmitting the contact inhibition signal that causes cells to stop dividing once the epithelial sheet is complete.
The 16S rRNA gene sequencing of Mycoplasma hyorhinis is generally used to show the genomic diversity in various anatomical sites of pigs and geographical regions where the organism is found.
Thymidine synthase has become the target for drugs used in the treatment of some cancers including the drug 5-fluorouracil (5-FU).
Chloride helps to regulate osmolarity by offsetting the positively charged sodium and potassium ions in the serum.
IMA is an early test that can be combined with electrocardiographic (ECG) findings and cardiac troponin testing for the early exclusion of acute coronary syndrome.
They sometimes include anaphylactic reactions with common symptoms such as urticaria, flushing and angioedema as well as more serious respiratory and cardiovascular symptoms.
Stem cells may be further processed in a variety of ways, depending upon the source and volume of stem cells and the diagnosis of the recipient.
2-Hydroxybutyrate is released as a byproduct when cystathionine is cleaved to cysteine that is incorporated into glutathione.
The two other components of the NHG are tubule formation and nuclear pleomorphism.
The IKBKG gene (inhibitor of kappa light polypeptide gene enhancer in B-cells, kinase gamma) is located on chromosome Xq28.
Serratia marcescens is an opportunistic, gram negative, pathogen from the family Enterobacteriaceae that causes both opportunistic and nosocomial infections.
This condition is characterized acutely by dyspnea, cough, fever, chest infiltrates, and acute inflammatory reaction.
Amprenavir is a Protease Inhibitor (PI) antiretroviral drug used in the treatment of HIV.
Methasterone is also referred to as methasteron, Superdrol, and methyldrostanolone.
Lysophospholipids have a role in lipid signaling by acting on lysophospholipid receptors (LPL-R).
The N-glucuronide conjugate of cotinine is a major urinary metabolite of nicotine.
Evidence suggests that IGF-IR signaling is required for survival and growth when prostate cancer cells progress to androgen independence.
At higher concentrations the odor can be unpleasant and may cause symptoms of central nervous system depression such as nausea, dizziness and headache.
The GDAP1 gene (ganglioside induced differentiation associated protein 1) is located on chromosome 8q21.11.
Hepcidin is a peptide hormone primarily synthesized in the liver and essential in regulating dietary iron absorption and distribution.
They inhibit certain blood proteases; examples include Alpha 1 antitrypsin, alpha 1 antichymotrypsin, and serum amyloid A.
The weight growth percentile is a comparison of the weight of the fetus to fetuses of the same gestational period in the general population.
The H locus contains the FUT1 gene, which is expressed in RBCs.
2-hydroxyphenylacetic acid is also a metabolite of tyrosine via enteric bacteria.
Quercus alba is a species of white oak that belongs to the white oak group, Quercus sect.
Some strains of A niger may produce mycotoxins called ochratoxins.
An alternative method to prepare a MOM ether is by using dimethoxymethane.
The CD79A and CD79B genes, located on chromosomes 19 and 17, respectively, encode the alpha and beta chains of the B-cell antigen receptor complex-associated protein.
E. maynei has been increasingly recognised as an important source of allergen exposure for patients with House dust mite allergy.
One is Mimosa pudica, because of the way it folds its leaves when touched or exposed to heat.
It is important in cell division, wound healing, ammonia removal from the body, immune function, and hormone release.
Phosphorylation by CDK2 on T187 results in ubiquitylation and degradation of p27; while phosphorylation by hKIS on S10 signals the nuclear export to the cytoplasm.
CD4 (cluster of differentiation 4) is a glycoprotein expressed on the surface of T helper cells, regulatory T cells, monocytes, macrophages, and dendritic cells.
T. solium has a very similar life cycle to Taenia saginata, the beef tapeworm, with a few differences.
It produces its anti-inflammatory effects via suppressing the activity of cyclooxygenase (COX), an enzyme which is responsible for the production of pro-inflammatory mediators such as the prostaglandins.
Ethyl glucuronide (EtG), a metabolite of ethyl alcohol formed in the body by glucuronidation following ethanol exposure, is a biomarker for ethanol use and a monitor to document alcohol abstinence in circumstances where drinking is prohibited, such as by the military, in professional monitoring programs, in schools, liver transplant clinics, or in recovering alcoholic patients.
Methandrostenolone is subject to extensive hepatic biotransformation by a variety of enzymatic pathways.
It has an important role in cell growth and differentiation.
Elevated or decreased levels of the amino acid may indicate a congenital enzyme defect.
The encoded protein also is part of the basal mitochondrial transcription complex and is necessary for mitochondrial gene expression.
Protonitazene is dissimilar in structure to synthetic opioids typically encountered in forensic casework (e.g., fentanyl, heroin); however, protonitazene is a structural isomer of isotonitazene, requiring increased analytical specificity during toxicological analysis.
In immunohistochemistry, antibodies to CK20 can be used to identify a range of adenocarcinomata arising from epithelia that normally contain the CK20 protein.
An alkaloid ester extracted from the leaves of plants including coca.
The test is useful for diagnosis of primary hyperparathyroidism, secondary hyperparathyroidism, and differential diagnosis of hypercalcemia.
Sirolimus, also known as rapamycin, is a macrolide compound that inhibits lymphocyte proliferation and is used as an immunosuppressant to prevent rejection in organ transplantation.
For example, if T cell crossmatch results are positive and B cell crossmatch results are positive, the overall interpretation is positive.
Many cases of the milder forms of gastrointestinal illness and most cases of pseuomembranous colitis are caused by toxigenic strains of Clostridium difficile.
Mitotic rate is calculated by the measurement of mitotic figures (condensed DNA that can be seen just before the cell divides) found on hematoxylin and eosin (H&E)-stained tissue sections.
The spontaneous clot formation time (Tsp) is the time from the beginning of the assay to time at which the average area of spontaneous clots comprises at least five percent of the overall sample area.
Somatotropin (growth hormone) is essential for normal growth and development in children and helps regulate metabolism in both children and adults.
People that are healthy usually do not get CRE infections.
It is found especially in prairies, at the side of roads and in uncultivated fields.
This component is a heteromeric complex consisting of 3 catalytic subunits encoded by mitochondrial genes and multiple structural subunits encoded by nuclear genes.
Carob is an evergreen tree probably native to the Middle East.
The most common causing allergic disease are Aspergillus fumigatus and Aspergillus clavatus.
Caffeine is a central nervous system stimulant, that increases alertness and produces agitation.
Aspirin is rapidly hydrolysed to salicylic acid which is further metabolized to various compounds, including salicyluric acid (SU) as well as various acyl and phenolic glucuronides, and hydroxylated metabolites.
Lepromatous leprosy is most common in those with impaired T-cell immunity, and tuberculoid leprosy in individuals with healthy immunity.
HPV type 39 has been associated with low grade cervical abnormalities, cancer precursors, and anogenital cancers.
The accumulation of GAGs increases the size of the lysosomes, which is why many tissues and organs are enlarged in this disorder.
It is drawn to macrophages and especially Schwann cells of the peripheral nerves.
APPV RNA can be found in various specimens, but central nervous tissue consistently yields high viral loads.
Some strains of TB have become resistant to more than one of the drugs used to treat TB, and are referred to as either multidrug-resistant TB (MDR-TB) or extensively drug-resistant TB (XDR-TB).
Rotaviruses comprise a genus within the family Reoviridae with nine existing groups.
Diagnosis of PCMV infection is most often made by viewing the intranuclear bodies in tissue samples of symptomatic pigs.
It shares sequence similarity with the Drosophila ether-a-go-go (eag) gene.
The sensitivity setting is set such that the pacemaker is sure to detect inherent cardiac electrical activity.
1) Patients receiving care at the beginning of the reporting period, 2) Additions during the reporting period, 3) Patient losses during the reporting period, 4) Number of patients present at the end of the reporting period, and 5)
This animal lives in the northern Pacific Ocean, in the area surrounding Japan, up the full coast of China up to Russia, then spreading across the Bering Straight over towards the lower coast of Alaska and the coast of Canada.
It also possesses anticholinergic activity and modulates antagonism of histamine H(1)- and H(2)-receptors.
Some species, called zooxanthellae, are endosymbionts of marine animals and protozoa, and play an important part in the biology of coral reefs.
Usually not clinically significant, but found with the ingestion of high-oxalate foods, renal disease, stones, or ethylene glycol toxicity.
Hepatitis A virus cellular receptor (HAVCR) 1 protein, also known by kidney injury molecule 1, KIM-1, TIM-1, and other names, acts as a receptor for multiple viruses, including Hepatitis A, Ebola, Marburg, Dengue, and Zika.
IRF is calculated by first dividing the reticulocytes into three categories (low-LFR, medium- MFR, and high fluorescence reticulocytes-HFR), depending on the amount of scatter they produced.
Zucchini can be yellow, green or light green, and generally have a similar shape to a ridged cucumber, though a few cultivars are available that produce round or bottle-shaped fruit.
Alternative splicing, involving the use of alternate first exons, results in multiple transcripts encoding different isoforms.
It can grow on other fungi, is commonly found on fallen timber and on tapestry, in moist dwellings and often isolated in kitchens, where it grows on unglazed ceramics.
The protein encoded by this gene localizes to both the cytoplasm and the nucleus.
Sialic acids are found widely distributed in animal tissues and to a lesser extent in other species ranging from plants and fungi to yeasts and bacteria, mostly in glycoproteins and gangliosides.
In Asia and Latin America, C tropicalis is the second or third most common species of Candida to cause systemic disease.
Citrobacter freundii is a member of the genus Citrobacter which are Gram-negative bacteria in the Enterobacteriaceae family.
High levels of kynurenic acid have been identified in patients suffering from tick-borne encephalitis, schizophrenia and HIV-related illnesses.
They are commonly seen in the urine of healthy patients.
Its chemical structure, shown in the table at right, has two hydroxyl groups bonded to a benzene ring in a para position.
Each connexin protein has four transmembrane segments, two extracellular loops, a cytoplasmic loop formed between the two inner transmembrane segments, and the N- and C-terminus both being in the cytoplasm.
Although occasionally used as a flavoring or perfume additive, nitrobenzene is highly toxic in large quantities and is mainly produced as a precursor to aniline.
Other species of schistosomes which parasitize birds and mammals can cause cercarial dermatitis in humans.
Studies suggest that anti-cN1A autoimmunity may be a consequence of IBM myonuclear degeneration in patient.
For most of medicine this was considered a meaningless curiosity, but for those involved with the early development of transfusions it was quickly noted that transfusion of blood only of the same group could mean the difference between a successful outcome or a fatality.
The superior angle between the line Nasion-Subspinale (A point) and the line A point-Pogonion
Xanthopterin and other pterins are thought to be associated with malignant diseases and therefore are used as biomarkers in a growing number of malignancies, including breast cancer.
Symptoms persist for 1-3 days, but NV can be found in stool samples of infected people for up to two weeks after symptoms subside.
The protein encoded by this gene contains an ATPase/helicase domain, and thus it belongs to the SWI/SNF family of chromatin remodeling proteins.
Direct or indirect contact with animal allergens frequently causes sensitisation.
Psychosine (PSY) is a cytotoxic glycosphingolipid that accumulates in the nervous system in the absence of galactosylceramidase (GALC), a lysosomal enzyme.
Short exposure to this element can lead to a type of poisoning known as BERYLLIOSIS.
Yersinia enterocolitica is a species of gram-negative coccobacillus-shaped bacterium, belonging to the family Enterobacteriaceae.
Tocilizumab is a recombinant humanized monoclonal antibody against the interleukin-6 receptor being used to treat patients with COVID-19 pneumonia.
Prior to the discovery and naming of actinium, the abbreviation Ac (or AC) was sometimes used in chemical formulas to indicate the acetate ion.
Tomatoes were used for food by the Indians of Peru before the arrival of Europeans.
It is dangerously toxic to aquatic wildlife and to the aquatic environment.
In 9 out of 10 neonates infected with HPeV-3, there is white matter damage which can lead to cerebral palsy, epilepsy and learning disabilities.
Several alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding three distinct isoforms have been reported.
This gene encodes a DNA glycosylase involved in oxidative DNA damage repair.
It is also involved in maintaining muscles mass by equalizing synthesis and breakdown of proteins.
The 16S gene is approximately 1500bp long and is universal in bacteria, allowing its relationships to be measured among all bacteria.
The resulting molecule is active chymotrypsin, a three polypeptide molecule interconnected via disulfide bonds.
A compound formed in the liver from ammonia produced by the deamination of amino acids.
The most common mutation known to be associated with FDB is p.Arg3500Gln.
Individuals who are chronically exposed to chlordane may show signs of jaundice.
It is present at high levels in primate erythrocytes and brain endothelial cells.) is a mechanism by which the brain acquires vitamin C. .
It is included in the genus Clostridium, a major group of Gram-positive forms.
Lysosomal storage disorders are caused by lysosomal dysfunction usually as a consequence of deficiency of a single enzyme required for the metabolism of lipids, glycoproteins (sugar containing proteins) or so-called mucopolysaccharides.
Sesamum indicum, originally from India, is now grown very widely: in India, the Middle East, the United States, Latin America, China, and elsewhere.
There is wide variation in enzyme activity, particularly for CYP3A4 (10-100 fold), due to both genetic and non-genetic factors.
IgG antibody to HAV is also found in the blood following vaccination and tests for immunity to the virus are based on the detection of this antibody.
Coffee comes from an evergreen, glabrous shrub or small tree which grows up to 5m tall if not pruned.
Genetic deficiency of the enzyme causes familial hyperlipoproteinemia Type I. (Dorland, 27th ed) .
The virus is probably spread through respiratory secretions from infected individuals though the exact mode of transmission is under investigation.
S prolificans is also associated with respiratory and central nervous system infections in patients with near-drowning victims who inhale contaminated water.
Cefacetrile is marketed under the trade names Celospor, Celtol, and Cristacef.
Phosphatidic acid (PA) is the acid form of phosphatidate, a part of common phospholipids, major constituents of cell membranes.
Diisopropylethylamine (Hünig's base) is a widely used relative of triethylamine.
Tumor necrosis factor receptor superfamily member 1A is a protein encoded by the TNFRS1A gene.
Atomoxetine is rapidly absorbed, and has a high affinity and selecivity to inhibit norepinephrine uptake.
This facilitated detection of the virus globally with subsequent sequences being nearly identical, suggesting a single, recent emergence from a virus related to bat coronaviruses and the SARS coronavirus.
The Xg locus is one of the few genes on the X chromosome that are not subject to Lyonization, ie., random "switching off" in females of one of the X genes.
Distinguishing gp120 & gp160 bands is often difficult, therefore, they are considered to be the same for the purposes of interpreting Western Blot results
In blood serum, procalcitonin has a half-life of 25 to 30 hours.
The biologically active form of ascorbic acid is vitamin C. Vitamin C is a water soluble vitamin.
It is commonly encountered in organic synthesis probably because it is the simplest symmetrically trisubstituted amine, i.e. a tertiary amine, that is liquid at room temperature.
Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been observed for this gene.
Elevated levels of DRD2L antibody have been linked to an immune response to a group A streptococcus infection, which has been implicated in tic disorder and neuropsychiatric abnormalities, although this is controversial.
The disease is contagious, particularly during an outbreak, and is incurable with present technology.
Sapovirus are currently classified into seven genogroups (GI to GVII) based on the complete sequence of capsid.
Placental growth factor (PGF) is a member of the VEGF (vascular endothelial growth factor) sub-family - a key molecule in angiogenesis and vasculogenesis, in particular during embryogenesis.
The presence of V at codon 136 has been associated with increased susceptibility to scrapie.
As a result, C. hominis has a low zoonotic potential compared to C. parvum.
In particular, phenylalanine is a large, neutral amino acid which moves across the blood-brain barrier (BBB) via the large neutral amino acid transporter (LNAAT).
Elevated levels of 2-oxoisovalerate are associated with maple syrup disease, pyruvate dehydrogenase deficiciency, and lactic acidosis.
This cotransporter mediates sodium and chloride reabsorption in the distal convoluted tubule.
FDA will use that information for various purposes including for inspectors when they visit the site.
This protein localizes to the endoplasmic reticulum and acts as a molecular chaperone.
Unlike antihistamines, which modify the systemic histamine -mediated allergic response, pseudoephedrine only relieves nasal congestion commonly associated with colds or allergies.
The 7q11.23 chromosome region is known as the critical region for Williams-Beuren syndrome (WBS), a contiguous gene deletion syndrome cause by a 1.5 to 1.8 Mb hemizygous deletion in this chromosome region containing approximately 28 genes.
This gene encodes the light, alpha subunit which has been proposed as a primary component of the microbicidal oxidase system of phagocytes.
Transferrin is a plasma protein that carries iron through the bloodstream to the bone marrow, where red blood cells are manufactured, as well as to the liver and spleen.
This enzyme performs the final step in the Leloir pathway of galactose metabolism, catalyzing the reversible conversion of UDP-galactose to UDP-glucose.
Ethylene glycol is the most important glycol commercially available and is manufactured on a large scale in the United States.
A trihydroxy sugar alcohol that is an intermediate in carbohydrate and lipid metabolism.
Propoxur is a white, crystalline carbamate and cholinesterase inhibitor insecticide used to combat mosquitoes, flies, ants, fleas and ticks on pets, mites, ticks, cockroaches, aphids, leafhoppers and snails.
The classification "abnormal lymphocyte" includes both variant lymphocytes (also known as atypical or reactive) and malignant lymphocytes (i.e., lymphoma cells).
The FGA gene (fibrinogen alpha chain) is located on chromosome 4q31.3.
After undergoing hydrolysis, it reacts with DNA to produce both intra and interstrand crosslinks.
The encoded protein binds specific carbohydrate moieties found on lipids and on the surface of microorganisms.
The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the transmembrane 4 superfamily, also known as the tetraspanin family.
These varied OXA-48-like beta-lactamases have been identified worldwide, including OXA-48-like producing Klebsiella pneumoniae with resistance to multiple drugs that emerged in Jordanian hospitals.
The second diastereomer (2 S ,3 S), which is rarely present in nature, is called L-allo-threonine.
Solerol is a volatile component identified in extracts of grape wines and numerous fruits, with aroma being among the most important factors in determining wine character and quality.. Solerol (4,5-dihydroxyhexanoic acid lactone) also appears to be a marker for Succinic semialdehyde dehydrogenase (SSADH) deficiency and probably arises from the reaction of succinic semialdehyde with an intermediate in the pyruvate dehydrogenase pathway.
Many polymorphisms have been reported in this gene, including 1236C>T (rs1128503) in exon 12, 2677G>T (rs2032582) in exon 21 and 3435C>T (rs1045642) in exon 26.
IgE has also been implicated in immune responses to a number of parasitic infections.
Unlike the other hydrogen halides, HF is lighter than air and it is particularly penetrating, which can damage the lungs.
Our definition is based on the World Health Organization's definition of sex and gender: sex (male, female) refers to biological and physiological characteristics, and gender (masculine, feminine) refers to socially constructed roles, behaviors, activities, and attributes.
Ferritin and transferrin are both acute-phase reactants and are greatly affected by inflammation, infection and malignancy.
Both of these assays measure the agglutination of platelets by VWF in the presence of ristocetin.
Bones may be autoclaved or boiled/extracted and cleaned, dried, and ashed differently.
Stromelysin-1 (MMP-3, Matrix metalloproteinase-1) is an enzyme that in humans is encoded by the MMP3 gene.
Vimentin is a type III intermediate filament (IF) protein that is expressed in mesenchymal cells.
Tetracycline, a broad-spectrum naphthacene antibiotic produced by the streptomyces bacterium, is used against many gram negative and gram positive bacteria.
In clinical studies related to energy and glucose metabolism, ghrelin is often measured.
Famphur is a cholinesterase inhibitor that is poured on or injected in cattle or reindeer to control grubs, cattle lice, reindeer grub fly, and reindeer nostril fly.
Furthermore the product of COX-2, PGH2 is converted by prostaglandin E2 synthase into PGE2, which in turn can stimulate cancer progression.
Alpha-1-microglobulin (also called protein HC or A1M) is a 31-kD, single-chain plasma glycoprotein that may be involved in regulation of the inflammatory process.
In Alaska, the crossing over to other streams allows salmon to populate new streams, such as those that emerge as a glacier retreats.
AS is characterized by intellectual and developmental disability, sleep disturbance, seizures, jerky movements (especially hand-flapping), frequent laughter or smiling, and usually a happy demeanor.
The risks associated with the misinterpretation of passive and immune anti-D are clear: if passive anti-D is misinterpreted as immune, anti-D prophylaxis may be omitted leaving the women unprotected from sensitisation.
An HII 1.0 through 1.9 is consistent with mild iron accumulation such as in heterozygous hemochromatosis or alchoholic liver disease.
Lecithin is used commercially as an emulsifier in baking mixes, candy, chewing gum, chocolate, ice cream, macaroni, margarine, whipped toppings, and many more.
ALKYLATING AGENTS and other chemical MUTAGENS, and various types of RADIATION have been found to cause chromosomal breakage.
The absence of CD5 in T cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia is associated with poor prognosis
It is also the name for the most common member of this group, N-acetylneuraminic acid (Neu5Ac or NANA).
T. palladum subsp pallidum (venereal syphilis) is the most destructive subspecies and produces lesions in many bodily tissues including the central nervous system.
The US Department of Health and Human Services (DHHS) and the International Agency for Research on Cancer (IARC) have determined that p-DCB may reasonably be anticipated to be a carcinogen, although there is no direct evidence.
Oligosaccharides can have many functions; for example, they are commonly found on the plasma membrane of animal cells where they can play a role in cell-cell recognition.
Cheetahs are the other species of the family Felidae known to become infected naturally
The high-fat, high-protein, ivory-colored nuts are actually inside the Pine cone.
The setting (when specified) is the facility the patient is being transferred out of (not where they are going).
Exposure to the allergen often occurs as skin disinfection prior to surgery and blood tests or by urinary catheterization, disinfection of a drain insertion site, or placement of a central venous catheter.
This gene encodes a protein that contains a cytosolic N-terminus, multiple helical transmembrane domains, and an endoplasmic reticulum membrane retention signal, TKGH, in the C-terminus.
HAV infection produces a self-limited disease that usually does not result in chronic infection or chronic liver disease.
A single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) of G to A at position 190 changes amino acid valine (GTC) to isoleucine (ATC) within codon 64 (CCR2-V64I).
Over 90% of all plants engage in some kind of mycorrhizal relationship with fungi and are dependent upon this relationship for survival.
Glutaryl-CoA dehydrogenase is an enzyme acting upon glutaryl-coenzyme A, creating crotonyl-coenzyme A.
The use of low molecular weight heparin (LMWH) is increasing significantly and it is important that it be used in conjunction with appropriate laboratory monitoring.
A cyclic lipopeptide used to diagnosis cSSSI caused by gram positive organisms including MRSA strains, using the Kirby Bauer (agar diffusion) method.
Red blood cells that are non-dysmorphic have no morphological changes.
The Chinese have all over the world exported a pungent sauce made from oyster extract and used for flavoring.
It is elevated in branched-chain ketoaciduria (maple syrup urine disease), along with leucine, isoleucine, and alloisoleucine.
The classic allergy to consumption of broad beans has led to the commonly used term favism, derived from the Italian name of the broad bean, fava.
Ethotoin lacks phenytoin's side effects of gingival hyperplasia and hirsutism, however it is less effective.
NeuNAc, an acetylated derivative of the carbohydrate sialic acid, makes the head groups of Gangliosides anionic.
B. parapertussis is a strictly aerobic, non-motile, gram-negative coccobacillus and that is difficult to isolate using traditional culture techniques.
For example, as of 2014 the blaOXA-23-like group included 19 genes, including including blaOXA-23, -27, -49, and -73..
Gemfibrozil increases HDL subfractions HDL2 and HDL3 as well as apolipoproteins A-I and A-II.
Complement Factor B present during primary activation of complement system via the alternative pathway is occuring when C3 and PFB are decreased and C4 is normal.
Propoxyphene is now banned in many countries due to cardiac side effects, and has been removed from the US market since 2010.
Genetic rearrangements involving the ABL2 gene are associated with leukemias, including Philadelphia chromosome-like acute lymphoblastic leukemia (Ph-like ALL).
Candida auris is a fungus that was first identified in 2009 in Japan and can cause serious infections in the blood, spinal fluid, and internal organs.
It is used to treat depression, but not considered a first line treatment since the introduction of SSRI antidepressants.
Some varieties of tuna, such as the bluefin and bigeye tuna, Thunnus obesus are threatened by overfishing.
Two clinically important species from this genus are E. aerogenes and E. cloacae.
There are various isoforms of FGF2; some localize to the nucleus whereas others are stored in the basement membrane for extracellular transport.
Most plant-based foods, such as oatmeal and beans, contain both soluble and insoluble fiber.
The expression of BAFF-R has been associated with 78% of lymphoproliferative disorders including follicular lymphoma, marginal zone lymphoma, chronic lymphocytic leukemia, hairy cell leukemia, and diffuse large B-cell lymphoma, but not others such as precursor B lymphoblastic lymphoma, Burkitt lymphoma, and nodular lymphocyte-predominant Hodgkin lymphoma.
This gene encodes the gamma chain isoform laminin, gamma 2.
It is also known as widemouth bass, bigmouth, black bass, bucketmouth, Florida bass, Florida largemouth, green bass, green trout, linesides, Oswego bass, southern largemouth and (paradoxically) northern largemouth.
5,6-dihydrouracil is the product of the first step in uracil catabolism, and the pattern of the levels of uracil, 5,6-dihydrouracil and other products of uracil catabolism can be used to diagnose defects pyrimidine degradation pathway enzymes.
Considering the close cross-reactivity described above, the following further possibilities should be considered.
Lactic acid, also known as milk acid, is a chemical compound that plays a role in various biochemical processes.
IMVI is when a tumor cells are confined to veins within the bowel wall.
Their survival depends on entry, growth, and replication within the cytoplasm of eukaryotic host cells.
Butylparaben, also known as butyl par asept or tegosept b, belongs to the class of organic compounds known as p-hydroxybenzoic acid alkyl esters.
It is able to assess multiple genetic anomalies using different fluorescent dyes and multiple probes.
The microspheres are 20-60 microns and are deposited at the tumor site where they block blood flow to the tumor and deliver intense local radiation.
Epidemic typhus, also called Jail Fever, Hospital Fever or Famine fever is a form of typhus caused by the bacillus Rickettsia prowazekii, carried by the human body louse Pediculus humanus humanus.
It is a known allergen and irritant in addition to causing dermatitis and pneumonitis.
This gene encodes a homolog of the S. cerevisiae bcs1 protein which is involved in the assembly of complex III of the mitochondrial respiratory chain.
It is available in oral and in some countries also in injectable form.
Vortioxetine is an antidepressant used to treat major depressive disorder (MDD).
It is often the cause of significant opportunistic infections among hospitalized patients and elderly residents in nursing homes associated with long-term indwelling urinary catheter use leading to UTIs.
While various nomenclatures have been used to describe these factors, it was internationally decided in the mid-1940's that the characteristics would be individually identified as A, B, AB and O and the blood group system know as ABO.
Anti-RNP belongs to the extractable nuclear antigen (ENA) subset of ANA.
A macrolide antibiotic that has a wide antimicrobial spectrum and is particularly effective in respiratory and genital infections.
The JAK2 V617F point mutation causes the activation of these pathways, leading to uncontrolled cell proliferation, resulting in myeloproliferative disorders.
There are three inhibitory families in the superfamily, including the type 1 cystatins (stefins), type 2 cystatins and kininogens.
It is used as a hypnotic and sedative and may induce dependence.
Fetal hydrops is not compatible with life and death occurs in utero or during early infancy.
It is named after Michael Epstein and Yvonne Barr, who together with Bert Achong discovered the virus in 1964.
These occur naturally in food and can also be taken as supplements.
Found in most mature, circulating T-cells Associated with most T-cell neoplasms that express CD3
Conventional fecal occult blood tests look for heme in the stools whereas newer tests look for globin.
Because people with this condition have too much β-sitosterol and related fats in their system, taking β-sitosterol will only worsen this condition.
Both of these bile acids are formed from cholesterol and converted by intestinal bacteria (through deconjugation and 7-alpha-hydroxylation) to the secondary bile acids, deoxycholic acid and lithocholic acid.
Large, robust forms of brown algae (PHAEOPHYCEAE) in the order Laminariales.
Oxyhemoglobin is the oxygen-loaded form of hemoglobin, the transport molecule for oxygen in the blood.
In these cases the presumed abnormality is due to reduced binding of pyridoxal-5-phosphate to GAD.
In biochemistry and nutrition, monounsaturated fats are fatty acids that have a single double bond in the fatty acid chain and all of the remainder of the carbon atoms in the chain are single-bonded.
Humans, unlike most animals, cannot synthesize vitamin C endogenously, so it is an essential dietary component.
Taking EPA supplements leads to an increased amount of EPA in the plaque of carotid arteries which may decrease inflammation and increase plaque stability.
Symptoms following exposure to fenthion include nausea, vomiting, abdominal cramps, diarrhea, salivation headache, dizziness, weakness, eshaustion, rhinorrhea, chest tightness, blurred vision, cardiac irregularities, and dyspnea.
Germline mutations of the extracellular domains of this receptor are associated with tumor necrosis factor associated periodic syndrome (TRAPS) or periodic fever syndrome.
In small amounts tin does not cause any harmful effects, however, ingesting large amounts of inorganic tin may cause abdominal pain, anemia, and liver and kidney problems.
The test is performed by adding a drop of the specimen being tested to an acetic acid solution.
Urine 5-HMU may be a biomarker for the oxidative damage and chronic inflammation in colorectal cancer.
It is also commonly referred to as the European Spruce.
Agrostis stolonifera (Creeping bentgrass, Creeping bent, Fiorin, Spreading bent, Carpet bentgrass, Redtop) is a perennial grass species in the Poaceae family.
Tick-borne encephalitis virus (TBEV) is a single-stranded RNA virus that causes an infectious disease of the central nervous system.
Some RT-PCR assay can detect both HPeVs and LVs targeting the conserved regions in the 5' nontranslated region (5'NTR) of the parechovirus genome.
Members of Agaricus are characterized by having a fleshy cap or pileus, from the underside of which grow a number of radiating plates or gills on which are produced the naked spores.
tert-Butanol, or 2-methyl-2-propanol (colorless liquid or white solid, depending on the ambient temperature), is the simplest tertiary alcohol.
Other groups can also confer acidity, usually weakly: hydroxyl group -OH, -SH, enol group,and the phenol group.
Along with other reticulocyte indices, HDWr can be used to monitor treatment efficacy for certain types of anemia, such as magnesium therapy in sickle cell disease.
Doravirine is a non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitor (NNRTI) developed to treat drug-resistant HIV.
Leptospirosis is one of the most common global zoonotic diseases, and most infections are caused two species: Leptospira borgpetersenii and Leptospira interrogans.
Uric acid (urate) is a product of the metabolic breakdown of purine nucleotides.
Daily School Routines/Classroom Information/Accommodations: checklist re lunchtime & snack carbs, access drinking water, bathroom privileges, recess time, physical education,12.
Several isoforms of the protein with molecular sizes of 43 and 48 KD exist due to multiple ALTERNATIVE SPLICING.
Casts are small mucoprotein tube-shaped structures formed in the distal convoluted tubules of the kidney.
Information from LOINC partner 1 and Jacobs and DeMott Laboratory Test Handbook, 5th edition, DS Jacobs, WR DeMott and DK Oxley, 2001.
Asp f 2 is also a major allergen, with sensitisation to this allergen occurring in more than 90% of A. fumigatus-sensitised individuals.
Amino acids and proteins are the building blocks of life.
Its elevated presence in the blood is an indication of essential fatty acid deficiency.
It is a key intermediate in the biosynthesis of ophthalmic acid or ophthalmate, which was first isolated from calf lens.
Rose hip is the edible ripe "fruit" of the Rose plant (usually the Dog or Wild rose), the pod and the base of the flower, and is typically red to orange, but might be dark purple to black in some varieties.
It was sold under the trade name Suprax in the USA, until 2003 when it was taken off the market by drug manufacturer Wyeth after its patent expired.
English Plantain is an erect perennial growing 0.3 m to 0.5 m in height.
This gene is found on chromosome 20, approximately 20 kbp upstream of a gene which encodes a biochemically and structurally similar protein to the one encoded by this gene.
This proved to be a problem when ornithine was originally classified among the other 20 naturally occuring amino acids.
Measles is spread through contact with fluids from an infected person's nose and mouth, either directly or through aerosol and is highly contagious.
The Shaker gene family of Drosophila encodes components of voltage-gated potassium channels and is comprised of four subfamilies.
4-Aminosalicylic acid, commonly known as PAS, is an antibiotic used to treat tuberculosis.
Unlike Lyme disease, rash is uncommon, presenting in only 4 out of 51 patients.
Pseudallescheria boydii is a species of fungus classified under Ascomycota.
Serum levels increase in response to systemic tissue injury, inflammation or infection.
It plays a key role in energy metabolism, and for the metabolism of fats, ketone bodies, carbohydrates, and proteins.
Foods with folic acid in them include leafy green vegetables, fruits, dried beans, peas, nuts and enriched breads, cereals and other grain products.
Since IKBKG helps activate NF-κB, which protects cells against TNF-alpha induced apoptosis, a lack of IKBKG (and hence a lack of active NF-κB) makes cells more prone to apoptosis.
Various amphetamines may cause these actions either separately or in combination.
These propeptides circulate in the bloodstream, where they are markers of bone formation.
Cysteinyldopa is believed to be formed by the rapid enzymatic hydrolysis of 5-S-glutathionedopa found in melanin-producing cells.
Indications:Clorazepate is used in the treatment of anxiety disorders and insomnia.
The PAX6 gene (paired box 6) is located on chromosome 11p13.
Cache Valley virus (CVV) was isolated in Cache Valley, Utah, in 1956.
Mutations in this gene result in heritable predisposition to colon and stomach cancer.
Two species are common commensal organisms in the intestines of humans: E. faecalis (90-95%) and E. faecium (5-10%).
Caesium compounds are rarely encountered by most people, but most are mildly toxic because of chemical similarity of caesium to potassium.
The risk can be estimated based on gestational age as well as prenatal genetic testing of fetal DNA.Monosomy X is caused by the presence of a single normal copy of chromosome X in each cell rather than 2 normal copies of X or one X and one Y chromosome.
In a preliminary study, both these compounds were proposed as a marker for metastatic bone tumor in patients with prostate cancer.
It is a gas at room temperature but is usually sold in pressurized gas cylinders or as a 40% solution in water.
Tyrosine is a precursor of the adrenal hormones epinephrine and norepinephrine, as well as of the thyroid hormones, including thyroxine.
A cysteine adduct is formed with the methylene group and this is the active form.
However, the link has not been firmly established in the scientific literature.
Reduced activity of this enzyme may also play a role in ataxia-telangiectasia.
There are several ways to diagnose infections with Babesia including thick and thin smear analysis, polymerase chain reaction, indirect immunofluorescence antibody, and by injecting patient blood into a hamster and waiting for severe parasitemia to develop in 2-4 weeks.
However, some strains of bacteria have developed resistance to this antibiotic, which has reduced its effectiveness for treating some types of infection.
This and the pattern of expression of this gene in chicken inner ear paralleled the histologic findings of acidophilic deposits, consistent with mucopolysaccharide ground substance, in temporal bones from DFNA9 (autosomal dominant nonsyndromic sensorineural deafness 9) patients.
PTV is diagnosed using virus neutralization, reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) and enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA).
The mature enzyme catalyzes the ligation of Serine to tRNA(Ser) and participates in the biosynthesis of selenocysteinyl-tRNA(sec) in mitochondria.
Hereditary enzyme disorders leading to the buildup of porphyrins or porphyrinogens cause porphyrias and affect the heme biosynthetic pathway.
These patients have suffered allergic anaphylaxis during general anaesthesia and are IgE-sensitized to NMBAs.
Histone methyltransferases regulate gene expression by the addition of methyl groups to histones.
It can occur in neurodegenerative disorders, such as Parkinson's disease, Huntington's and Alzheimer's disease, in stroke, in epilepsy, in multiple sclerosis, in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, and in mental failures, such as schizophrenia and depression.
Anaphylactic reactions to Hymenoptera stings are not dose-dependent or related to the number of stings.
Iohexol is a non-ionic agent that is used as a marker for measuring glomerular filtration rate (GFR).
Organic, monobasic acids derived from hydrocarbons by the equivalent of oxidation of a methyl group to an alcohol, aldehyde, and then acid.
The PPOX gene (hypocretin neuropeptide precursor) is located on chromosome 17q21.2.
Red Pepper (capsicum annuum), aka pimentos exist in mild and pungent varieties and are eaten accordingly, as a vegetable or as a condiment.
In mammalian cells, XPG cleaves 3' of the DNA lesion while ERCC1-XPF complex makes the 5' incision.
It catalyzes the transient breaking and rejoining of two strands of duplex DNA which allows the strands to pass through one another, thus altering the topology of DNA.
Propofol has been referred to as milk of amnesia (a play on words of milk of magnesia), because of the milk-like appearance of its intravenous preparation.
The fact that Interleukin-8 secretion is increased by oxidant stress and conversely, Interleukin-8, by causing recruitment of inflammatory cells induces a further increase in oxidant stress mediators, makes it a key parameter in localized inflammation.
The APOA1 gene is located on chromosome 11 at position q23.3.
Coccidioides immitis is a pathogenic fungus that resides in the soil.
Notch signaling is an evolutionarily conserved intercellular signaling pathway that regulates interactions between physically adjacent cells through binding of Notch family receptors to their cognate ligands.
Alpha-aminoadipic semialdehyde (α-AASA) is a derivative of lysine used in the production of elastin and collagen.
According to the Fourth Annual Report on Carcinogens (NTP 85-002, 1985, p133), this substance may reasonably be anticipated to be a carcinogen (Merck, 11th ed).
Two alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms have been found for this gene.
Corrective lenses use prism to adjust image perception with both eyes to a single fused image.
Methyl parathion is a possible teratogen but not believed to be a carcinogen.
The CFH gene (complement factor H) is located on chromosome 1q32.
Species of tapeworm in the genus TAENIA, that infects swine.
A pseudogene highly similar to this locus is located in an adjacent region of the X chromosome.
It down-regulates the expression of Th1 cytokines, MHC class II antigens, and costimulatory molecules on macrophages.
The hamster zona-free ovum test (HZFO test), or hamster test is a method for diagnosing male infertility due to the inability of the sperm to penetrate the ova.
Control of retinoic acid levels is maintained by a suite of proteins.
It is primarily used in Europe to treat major depressive disorder; it has not been approved for use in the United States as of 2018.
Patients with B. miyamotoi infection are most likely to have fever, chills, and headache.
Gly m 4 (8) belongs to the PR-10 protein family.
It possesses anxiolytic, anticonvulsant, sedative and skeletal muscle relaxant properties.
It is more polar than diethyl ether, which also has four carbons, but only one ether functional group.
This colorless, water miscible, high boiling liquid is commonly used as a polar solvent in organic chemistry.
There appears to be extensive cross-reactivity between Stempbylium and Curvularia and Alternata.
Members of the MDR/TAP subfamily are involved in multidrug resistance as well as antigen presentation.
Itraconazole (marketed as Sporanox ®) is a triazole antifungal agent that is prescribed to patients with fungal infections.
At low pH it inhibits gastric motor activity, whereas at high pH it has a stimulating effect.
There are two different types of dietary fiber -- soluble and insoluble.
The main mechanism of action is instead inhibition of dopamine reuptake, more similar to that of methylphenidate.
Both toxins are composed of a single copy of subunit A and five copies of subunit B. Stx1a and Stx1b induce host cell apoptosis by removing an adenine residue from the 28S rRNA of the 60S ribosome, with RNA-N-glycosidase activity provided by subunit A.
Cholesterol is the principal sterol synthesized by animals, but small quantities are synthesized in other eukaryotes, such as plants and fungi.
Many BBS proteins localize to the basal bodies, ciliary axonemes, and pericentriolar regions of cells.
Screening of oxycodone may be done on forensic samples such as oral fluid (saliva), serum, plasma, blood, and urine.
Individuals exposed to Tetrachlorodiphenylethane may experience the following symptoms: anorexia, nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, dermatitis, apathy from mild dulling of interest to profound psychotic depression, gynecomastia, hematuria, leukopenia, thrombocytopenia and lassitude.
Erbovirus A contains three serotypes: equine rhinitis B virus (ERBV)-1, ERBV-2 and ERBV-3, which were formerly known as equine rhinovirus 2, equine rhinovirus 3 and acid-stable equine picornavirus, respectively.
Codons associated with susceptibility/resistance to scrapie include codon 112, 136, 141, 154 and 171.
Intravascular fluid intake refers to fluids administered within the vascular system.
Despite its negligible virulence in humans, it is often tested for in US domestic mosquito control programs as an indicator of fruitful conditions for other mosquito-borne zoonoses to multiply.
The spike or S protein is one of seven proteins encoded by the 28 kB and resides on the outer surface of the virion.
Adverse reactions to Gluten protein include food allergy, food-dependant exercise-induced asthma or anaphylaxis and coeliac disease, a non-IgE-mediated enteropathy caused by gliadin.
Mutations in this gene cause X-linked Pelizaeus-Merzbacher disease and spastic paraplegia type 2.
Traditionally excluded from definition of parasites are pathogenic BACTERIA; FUNGI; VIRUSES; and PLANTS; though they may live parasitically.
Recently, pregnenolone sulfate has developed as a biomarker of adrenal disorders .
The leaves can be either deciduous or evergreen, ovate to lanceolate, and from 1-8 cm long and 0.5-3.5 cm broad.
Endrin is a white, solid, nearly odorless chemical that has been used to eradicate insects, rodents, and birds.
Decanoylcarnitine is a primary marker for Medium-chain acyl-CoA dehydrogenase deficiency and Glutaric acidemia type II.
Ketoconazole is sold commercially as an anti-dandruff shampoo, branded Nizoral®, by Janssen Pharmaceutica.
Mutations in this gene have been associated with hypocalciuric hypercalcemia type II (HHC2) and hypocalcemia dominant 2 (HYPOC2).
Beta-type platelet-derived growth factor receptor is a protein that in humans is encoded by the PDGFRB gene.
Mutations in this gene are also associated with complete androgen insensitivity (CAIS).
Avibactam is a non-beta-lactam beta-lactamase inhibitor that is being developed for possible use in combination with ceftaroline.
The INR is specifically intented for evaluating protime results on patients stabilized on long term oral anticoagulant therapy.
As doxepin hydrochloride, it is the active ingredient in cream-based preparations (Zonalon and Xepin) for the treatment of dermatological itch.
CCL17 is also known as thymus and activation regulated chemokine (TARC).
HPV type 6 can cause benign or low-grade cervical cell abnormalities, genital warts and laryngeal papillomas.
Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms.
The Russian olive tree is a member of the family Eleagnaceae.
Lactose is a disaccharide that consists of -D-galactose and -D-glucose molecules bonded through a 1-4 glycosidic linkage.
Interleukin-4, abbreviated IL-4, is a cytokine that induces differentiation of naive helper T cells (Th0 cells) to Th2 cells.
Past reactions (s/s of allergic reaction): ex.s: wheezing or difficulty breathing, generalized tingling or itching, 5. Action Plan: steps to follow if Severe Symptoms (described); steps to follow if Mild Symptoms (described), medication orders: epinephrine, antihistamine and/or other meds6.
Defects in the PHGDH gene are associated with two disorders: phosphoglycerate dehydrogenase(PGDH) deficiency and Neu-Laxova syndrome 1 (NLS1).
Small cell carcinomas (of any primary site) are usually positive.
MDA5, more formally known as interferon-induced helicase C domain-containing protein 1, is an immune receptor for viral nucleic acids and plays a major role in activating antiviral responses, including the induction of type I interferons and proinflammatory cytokines.
Mast cells, derived from the bone marrow stem cells, are regulated by the STEM CELL FACTOR.
It is a secondary metabolite found in certain plants of the Solanaceae family, including henbane (Hyoscyamus niger), mandrake (Mandragora officinarum), jimsonweed (Datura stramonium), and deadly nightshade (Atropa belladonna).
ARSA mutations cause metachromatic leukodystrophy (MLD), a progressive demyelinating disease that in its late infantile form is associated with neurodegeneration, motor rigidity, seizures, and death by age 5.
PFOA has been produced since the 1940s in industrial synthesis.
A unique set of primers is used for each target molecule.
It is involved in the regulation of cellular stress responses as well as the control of proliferation and survival of many cell types.
Sperm with nonprogressive motility are able to swim, but have an abnormal trajectory, often circular.
The first three are located together on chromosome 2, while the tissue non-specific form is located on chromosome 1.
Elastase is inhibited by the acute-phase protein α1-antitrypsin (A1AT), which binds almost irreversibly to the active site of elastase and trypsin.
Sequence data revealed that c-mpl encoded a protein that was homologous with members of the hematopoietic receptor superfamily.
Lettuce allergy is not frequently reported in the literature, but is found in clinical practice, predominantly in the southern part of Europe.
Both B. pertussis and parapertussis are strictly aerobic, non-motile, gram-negative coccobacilli that are difficult to isolate using traditional culture techniques.
Due to its unique chemical and conformational properties, cyclohexane is also used in labs in analysis and as a standard.
They assist in destroying extracellular structures in pathogenesis of bacteria such as Clostridium.
2,8 dihydroxyadenine (DHA) is formed from adenine and elevated levels of DHA are associated with adenine phosphoribosyl transferase (APRT) deficiency, a rare metabolic disorder.
Oropouche virus (OROV) was isolated in approximately 1955 in Trinidad and Tobago.
It was given a U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) fast-track approval and was approved on June 17, 2005.
A condition in infancy or early childhood due to an in-utero deficiency of THYROID HORMONES that can be caused by genetic or environmental factors, such as thyroid dysgenesis or HYPOTHYROIDISM in infants of mothers treated with THIOURACIL during pregnancy.
Platelet-derived growth factor receptors (PDGFRs) are cell surface tyrosine kinase receptors for members of the platelet-derived growth factor (PDGF) family.
F magna has several virulence factors including protein L, PAB, SufA, and FAF.
The parasite always has two hosts in its life cycle: a mosquito vector and a vertebrate host.
A tree species producing pollen, which often induces hayfever, asthma, and conjunctivitis in sensitized individuals.
Five alternatively spliced transcripts encoding the same protein have been described.
Therefore, monounsaturated fatty acids have a higher melting temperature than polyunsaturated fatty acids but lower than saturated fatty acids.
A subsequent secretion of chloride ions, stimulation of arachidonic acid release, and production of prostaglandin E2 and 5-dyroxytryptamine leads to an efflux of water, bicarbonate ions, sodium ions, and chloride ions into the intestinal space, all of which leads to watery diarrhea.
The 8 mutations are as follows: c.238G>C (TPMT*2), c.460G>A and c.719A>G (TPMT*3A), c.460G>A (TPMT*3B), c.719A>G (TPMT*3C), intron 9/exon10 splice junction mutation (TPMT*4), c.146C>T (TPMT*5), c.539A>T (TPMT*6), c.681T>G (TPMT*7).
These properties allow LMWH to be administered only once or twice per day.
This protein localizes to the endoplasmic reticulum and its expression is induced by phenobarbital.
Another study of patients with hypertension found that 1/3 MFR measured after stress was significantly lower in patients with hypertension compared to controls, as was the stress PFR.
Implicit b-wave time is the amount of time between the flash onset and the peak of the b-wave produced on an electroretinogram (ERG).
Typically, it grows well in flat river bottom areas referred to as cedar elm flats.
The infection spreads by contact, especially in gyms and showers.
The locus includes thirteen unique alternate first exons followed by four common exons.
Fungal components can cause allergic symptoms through inhalation, ingestion or skin contact.
This process is widely used in all known forms of life.
Reed canary grass (Phalaris arundinacea) is a tall, perennial grass that commonly forms extensive single-species stands along the margins of lakes and streams and in wet open areas, with a wide distribution in Europe, Asia, northern Africa and North America.
Biphenyl is an aromatic hydrocarbon with a molecular formula C12 H10.
It is used to identify mitotic figures, and has been compared to another marker of mitosis, Ki67.
CD68, 110 kDa, a highly glycosylated transmembrane protein which is mainly located in lysosomes.
A species of gram-positive bacteria in the family Clostridiaceae, found in INTESTINES and SOIL.
High levels of ALT could indicate hepatitis, obstructed bile ducts, liver tumors, cirrhosis, alcoholism or other liver disorders.
Sequoia is a genus of redwood coniferous trees in the family Cupressaceae, the only living example of which is Sequoia sempervirens.
The amylase to creatinine clearance ratio will be less than 0.2.
The differences between these groups are distinguished geographically and genetically.
It can cause a disease called oriental sore which is a form of cutaneous leishmaniasis.
The HLA-DRB5, HLA-DRB3, and HLA-DRB4 genes encode for the serological antigens DR51, DR52 and DR53, respectively.
The following information is included in the action plan: 1.
Isobutyrylglycinuria is caused by mutations in the ACAD8 gene and has an autosomal recessive pattern of inheritance.
Doxylamine has also been administered in veterinary applications and was formerly used in Parkinsonism.
It occurs naturally in the peyote cactus (Lophophora williamsii), the San Pedro cactus (Echinopsis pachanoi), in the Peruvian Torch cactus (Echinopsis peruviana), and it is also found in a number of other members of the Cactaceae.
Amoeba (sometimes amœba or ameba, plural amoebae) is a genus of protozoan.
A tetrameric form has also been observed in human liver and placenta.
Treatment of TB has been complicated by the emergence of drug-resistant strains which are present all over the world.
It has been used as a live vaccine against smallpox.
It is also a drug- an anabolic steroid- used to enhance atheletic performance, but banned as an OTC drug by the FDA in 2004.
Decreased levels of gamma-butyrobetaine and 3-hydroxy-6-N-trimethyllysine along with increased levels of 6-N-trimethyllysine in plasma and urine were found in a patient with a deletion of exon 2 of the trimethyllysine hydroxylase epsilon (TMLHE) gene.
Various methods are used to compute bone age by comparing the maturity of the bones to idealized standards.
In extremely low birth weight infants ILE is given to promote continued growth of the body and brain.
Increased levels of alpha-3 are associated with an increased risk of CVD.
It inhibits transcription by binding with the rpoB encoded beta-subunit of the DNA-dependent RNA polymerase (RNAP).
This sequence of events causes an hypnotic response in the patient and induces sleep.
Mutations affecting EGFR expression or activity could result in cancer.
In males, GnRH is instrumental in the production of sperm cells in the testes.
A deficiency of vitamin D can be due to many causes including inadequate dietary intake, insufficient sunlight, malabsorption problems, inability to convert vitamin D into its active metabolite, kidney or liver impairment and many others.
It is especially common in rats and in swine fed uncooked garbage.
Marek's disease virus (MDV) is the causative agent in Marek's disease, an neoplastic viral disease seen in chickens.
Ziprasidone is not approved by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for the treatment of behavior problems in older adults with dementia as taking antipsychotics such as ziprasidone increases the risk of stroke or death during treatment for those patients.
Another variant is c.3947+467T>C (rs10455872), which is located in intron 25.
A species of the genus Saccharomyces, family Saccharomycetaceae, order Saccharomycetales, known as "baker's" or "brewer's" yeast.
The two most prominent BRAF mutations are V600E (Val600Glu, c.1799T>A) and V600K (Val600Lys, c.1798_1799delGTinsAA), which result in increased kinase activity.
Sweden banned the use of DDT in 1970 and the United States followed suit in 1972.
Ibuprofen was developed by the research arm of Boots Group.
Severe complications such as CNS infections or infections in the heart lining occur in about 5 percent of cases.
Thus, excessive levels of phenylalanine significantly decrease the levels of other LNAAs in the brain.
It is possible that the allergy occurs more frequently than has been reported.
They can be present in various disorders, including the high urinary protein nephrotic syndrome, diabetic or lupus nephropathy, or larger-scale necrosis or epithelial cell death.
HPV type 73 has been associated with low grade cervical abnormalities, cancer precursors, and anogenital cancers.
The determination of its concentration in urine is therefore used as a biomarker of occupational or environmental exposure to benzene.
Testing for IgE antibodies may be used to help diagnose an allergic disease or the cause of an anaphylactic episode in a patient.
PTH (1-84) is originally produced as a 118-amino acid polypeptide in the parathyroid glands.
Dehydroascorbic acid is the oxidized form of vitamin C. Reduced Vitamin C concentrations in the brain exceed those in blood by 10 fold.
Daclatasvir is used along with other medications, such as sofosbuvir (tradename Solvadi), to treat certain types of chronic hepatitis C. Treatment stops the virus from multiplying and in turn prevents secondary diseases of hepatitis C, including cirrhosis and liver cancer.
Its therapeutic effects result from actions at spinal and supraspinal sites, generally the reduction of excitatory transmission.
Thiopurine drugs such as 6-mercaptopurine are used as chemotherapeutic agents.
Urinary VMA is increased in about 90% of patients with neuroblastoma.
Alternate splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms.
Rivaroxaban is well absorbed from the gut and maximum inhibition of factor Xa occurs four hours after a dose.
For example, for triplet pregnancies, imaging of the first fetus would be ordered and reported under the "Multisection for pregnancy" code, and imaging of the second and third fetus would be ordered and reported using two instances of the "Multisection for pregnancy multiple gestation" code.
The CDH1 gene (cadherin 1, type 1, E-cadherin (epithelial)) is located on chromosome 16q22.1.
Beta tryptase is a mast-cell specific serine protease thought to be involved in causing asthma and other allergic and inflammatory disorders.
It is almost completely absent among prokaryotes, which include bacteria.
Type-IV collagen is a type of collagen found primarily in the basal lamina.
They are indicated for treatment of diabetes mellitus type 2 and act to increase insulin release from pancreatic beta cells.
Most of these mutations change a single amino acid in the RET protein.
Phenol, also known under an older name of carbolic acid, is a colorless crystalline solid with a typical sweet tarry odor.
These mites thrive in humid human dwellings where there is no liquid water to drink.
Due to safety concerns related to drug dependence and overdose and new safer psychoactive medications barbiturate use sharply declined in the 1950s.
Lathyrus sativus, is a legume (family Fabaceae) commonly grown for human consumption and livestock feed in Asia and East Africa.
Under the microscope, starch grains stained with iodine illuminated from behind with polarized light show a distinctive Maltese cross effect (also known as extinction cross and birefringence).
This glycoprotein is broadly distributed among hematopoietic and non-hematopoietic cells.
Currently, it is the only marker able to detect heterozygous carriers with 21-hydroxylase deficiency after Adrenocorticotropic Hormone (ACTH) stimulation.
This gene contains an upstream open reading frame in the 5' UTR that inhibits expression of the huntingtin gene product through translational repression.
The Zika virus (ZIKV) nonstructural protein 1 (NS1) is secreted by infected cells and is involved in immune evasion and pathogenesis.
Ampicillin/sulbactam is a combination of the common penicillin-derived antibiotic ampicillin and sulbactam, an inhibitor of bacterial beta-lactamase.
In order for tryptophan in the diet to be changed into niacin, the body needs to have enough: iron, riboflavin, and vitamin B6.
Segmented neutrophils and mucus strands may be indicative of inflammation, thus a high quality sputum specimens.
It was formerly called KAF, C3bINF, or enzyme 3b inactivator.
Aminoglycosides are active against mycobacteria and a broad spectrum of aerobic gram-negative and gram-positive organisms.
The red snapper, Lutjanus campechanus, is a very tasty reef fish found in the Gulf of Mexico and the southeastern Atlantic coast of the United States.
It is also used to treat outbreaks of chlamydia, syphilis, acne and gonorrhea.
Since 2001, the WHO has recognized PMBCL as a distinct clinicopathologic disease from DLBCL, with likely distinct treatment options.
While computed tomography (CT) scans are the gold standard for diagnosing lung cancer, CT has a 50% rate of false positives and, subsequently, a large number of unnecessary follow-up treatments.
As part of the measurement process of vitamin B12 in biologic specimens, the cobalamins present in that specimen are converted to the cyanocobalamin form.
Ethanolamine, also called 2-aminoethanol or monoethanolamine (often abbreviated as MEA), is an organic chemical compound which is both a primary amine (due to an amino group in its molecule) and a primary alcohol (due to a hydroxyl group).
The GRHPR gene (glyoxylate reductase/hydroxypyruvate reductase) is located on chromosome 9q12.
Ragweed pollen has also been implicated in eustachian tube dysfunction in patients with allergic rhinitis and contact dermatitis.
It is a North American close relative of the European pikeperch.
Germline mutations in MYD88 are associated with a disorder called MyD88 deficiency, which is characterized by recurrent bacterial infections.
Zolpidem is a prescription medication used for the short-term treatment of insomnia, as well as some brain disorders.
A genus of coccidian parasites of the family cryptosporidiidae, found in the intestinal epithelium of many vertebrates including humans.
Beverages containing caffeine, such as coffee, tea, soft drinks and energy drinks enjoy great popularity: caffeine is the world's most widely consumed psychoactive substance.
Oil from the fruit had been produced by 3000 BC.
The genus Parietaria has about 10 species, which are highly cross-reactive to each other.
The detection of plasma or blood ketosterol bile acid precursors, specifically 7alpha-hydroxy-4-cholesten-3-one, 7alpha,12alpha-dihydroxy-4-cholesten-3-one and 7alpha,12alpha-dihydroxy-5beta-cholestan-3-one, is sensitive for the diagnosis of cerebrotendinous xanthomatosis (CTX), a rare autosomal recessive disorder of bile acid synthesis that causes neurodegeneration and premature death.
Mutations in this gene cause sialic acid storage diseases, including infantile sialic acid storage disorder and and Salla disease, an adult form.
In blood plasma significant amounts of lysophosphatidylcholine are formed by a specific enzyme system, lecithin:cholesterol acyltransferase (LCAT), which is secreted from the liver.
Intracellular fluid is estimated by subtracting extracellular fluid from total body water.
Alpha-methylacyl-CoA racemase is involved in the racemization of 2-methyl-branched fatty acid CoA esters and encoded by the AMACR gene.
Growth hormone stimulation tests can use a variety of challenges including clonidine, arginine, and glucagon.
Since the pancreas must synthesize insulin in order for this drug to work, it is not effective in the management of type I diabetes.
This imprinted gene is maternally expressed in brain and biallelically expressed in other tissues.
People with hemoglobin E do not show any symptoms (there is usually no anemia or hemolysis).
The effects of 6-mercaptopurine (6-MP) are mediated via its intracellular conversion (RBC) to 6-thioguanine (6-TG) and 6-methylmercaptopurine (6-MMP) nucleotide metabolites, the latter genetically controlled by thipurine methyltransferase (TPMT).
Two major diseases associated with Aeromonas are gastroenteritis and wound infections, with or without bacteremia.
Since the transmissoin of the virus occurs from exposure to nasal and oral excretions, vaccine coding for these glycoproteins may play an important role in reducing the spread of the disease.
When the outbreak has passed, the virus 'dies back' along the nerve until it is only present in the nerve body.
Rape originated in northern Europe and was cultivated in the Mediterranean area, but is now grown throughout the world.
As its name indicates, it is a major component of the oil from palm trees (palm oil and palm kernel oil).
Enzyme deficiencies in pyrimidine metabolism are associated with a risk for severe toxicity against the antineoplastic agent 5-fluorouracil.
Testing is currently (2013) restricted to patients exhibiting the clinical symptoms of MERS-CoV infection and having the epidemiological risk factors.
The terminal reaction is carried out by the C-terminal enzyme OMP decarboxylase which converts orotidine-5'-monophosphate to uridine monophosphate.
In solution, it can lose a proton from the acidic group, producing the lactate ion CH3 CH(OH)COOˆ'.
Clot growth is expressed as an increase in length over time and is related to the propagation stage of blood coagulation.
Patients with autoimmune inner ear disease AIED typically experience hearing loss and tinnitus over several months, but variations of the onset of AIED can include bilateral attacks of hearing loss, attacks of dizziness, and the presence of autoantibodies.
A member of the MNS blood group system, the Dantu antigen was described in 1984.
U1 small nuclear ribonucleoprotein particle (U1 snRNP) is an RNA-protein complex that is composed of ten proteins: U1-70kD, U1A, U1C and seven Smith antigen (Sm) proteins.
A lack (deficiency) of fluoride may lead to increased cavities, and weak bones and teeth.
Certain protein allergens and chemicals capable of acting as haptens occur at high concentrations in workplace environments.
It is now most commonly used as an intermediate chemical in the manufacture of various psychiatric drugs.
This in turn is followed by introduction of a guidewire which is advanced though the guide catheter, through the obstruction and extended into the blood vessel lumen beyond the obstruction.
Stachybotrys atra Corda Stachybotrys alternans Stilbospora chartarum Ehrenberg Stachybotrys chartarum originally described from the wall of a house in Prague in 1837 by Czech mycologist August Carl Joseph Corda (obsolete: Stachybotrys alternans and Stachybotrys atra) is a greenish-black mold that is commonly found outdoors and sometimes found in damp or flooded homes.
A cardioselective beta-adrenergic antagonist with little effect on the bronchial receptors.
This drug is commonly used as a muscle relaxant as well as spasticity management.
In one specific use, serum NfL levels are markedly elevated in atypical parkinsonisms compared to Parkinson disease.
Calcium phosphate is the name given to a family of minerals containing calcium ions (Ca2+) together with orthophosphates (PO4 3-), metaphosphates or pyrophosphates (P2 O7 4-) and occasionally hydrogen or hydroxide ions.
It is used primarily for ornamental plants, turf, and ground covers.
Complex I deficiency is associated with a wide range of clinical disorders, including Parkinson disease, macrocephaly with progressive leukodystrophy, nonspecific encephalopathy, hypertrophic cardiomyopathy, myopathy, liver disease, Leigh syndrome and Leber hereditary optic neuropathy .
For example, they can be used with patients who are beginning long-term treatment with a controlled substance.
However, the excretion of certain acyl glycines is increased in several inborn errors of metabolism.
The blood urea nitrogen (BUN) and the urine urea nitrogen (UUN) tests may be used to determine how well a patient's kidneys are functioning.
These counts are used for prognostic purposes and to guide in the retroviral therapy.
Alloisoleucine+Isoleucine+Leucine+Hydroxyproline is a primary marker for Maple syrup urine disease and Hydroxyprolinemia
The t(9;22)(BCR-ABL1) gene translocation leads to the cytogenetic finding known as the Philadelphia chromsome (Ph').
The presence of the Choriogonadotropin beta subunit (B HCG) in plasma or serum shortly after conception followed by its rapid rise in concentration makes it an excellent marker for confirmation and monitoring of pregnancy.
Type I, the most common, also includes coagulation abnormalities, bone and lung involvement, whereas type II is rapidly progressive and includes CNS involvement.
These chemicals are used in the synthesis of plasticisers and for producing epoxy and alkyd resins as well as a variety of other products including dyes, insecticides, polyester resins and pharmaceuticals.
The MXI1 gene (MAX interactor 1, dimerization protein) is located on chromosome 10q24-q25.
The protein encoded by this gene is an enzyme that catalyzes the conversion of S-adenosyl-L-methionine (along with glycine) to S-adenosyl-L-homocysteine and sarcosine.
In pregnancy, P-ALP is first detected between the sixteenth and twentieth week of gestation.
The OPA1 gene (optic atrophy 1 (autosomal dominant)) is located on chromosome 3q29.
One study found that 30% of European Starlings in farm settings in Oxfordshire, United Kingdom, were carriers of C. jejuni.
This may in turn help to control body total cholesterol levels, as well as modify HDL, LDL and TAG levels.
PCV2c was originally known to exist only in healthy, domestic pigs in Denmark, but was later identified in feral pigs in Brazil.
The drug inhibits protein synthesis by reversibly binding to the 50S ribosome subunit.
Microorganism typing can be done for a variety of organisms including bacteria, viruses, and fungi.
Today you should avoid mapping to it except when you are mapping old TSH tests whose sensitivity cannot be ascertained.
This encoded protein is a cell surface glycoprotein that is known to complex with integrins.
Folic acid and folate (the anion form) are forms of a water-soluble B vitamin.
The most common symptom in men is discharge that may be scanty and clear or cloudy to copious and purulent, and often dysuria.
The GLA gene is located on chromosome Xq22.1 and encodes alpha-galactosidase A, a lysosomal enzyme involved in the metabolism of glycosphingolipids.
The diversity of the T-cell repertoire depends on recombination as well as nucleotide insertion and deletion at junctional sites (V-J, D-J, and V-D).
Ursodeoxycholic acid helps regulate cholesterol by reducing the rate at which the intestine absorbs cholesterol molecules while breaking up micelles containing cholesterol.
Acid phosphatase enzyme present in hairy cell is resistant to tartrate while the enzyme in other lymphoid cells are tartrate sensitive.
Major histocompatibility complex, class II, DQ beta 1, also known as HLA-DQB1, is a human gene.
Human upstream binding factor (hUBF) is a nucleolar protein that plays a key role in rRNA production.
Patients with severe factor XI deficiency may develop an inhibitor to factor XI after infusion of fresh frozen plasma or factor XI concentrates.
Fibrinogen is produced in the liver and constitutes 5% of the total plasma protein.
Phenylpyruvic acid is a keto-acid that is an intermediate or catabolic byproduct of phenylalanine metabolism.
The two forms of vitamin D used for nutritional supplementation are the secosterols ergocalciferol (vitamin D2) and cholecalciferol (vitamin D3).
Genetic testing is performed to identifying patients who are poor, intermediate, extensive, or ultrarapid metabolizers of drugs metabolized by CYP1A2.
Zinc plays a role in immune function, protein synthesis, wound healing, DNA synthesis, and cell division.
Congenital sucrase-isomaltase deficiency (CSID) is a genetic condition affecting the digestion of some sugars.
CDG varies widely in its severity ranging from a mild to severe presentation.
The guanine-based purines play an important role in various biochemical processes such as synthesis of nucleic acids and proteins, muscle contraction, and extracellular signal transduction.
Complement proteins are activated during the acute phase of inflammation or infection.
Toscana virus broadly circulates in in European Mediterranean basin and Northern Africa .
This disease is characterized by the lysosomal accumulation and urinary excretion of heparan sulfate.
Extreme exposure can lead to blurred or dark vision, confusion, tightness in the chest, wheezing, productive cough, pulmonary edema, incontinence, unconsciousness, and convulsions.
Patients with B. miyamotoi infection are most likely to have fever, chills, and headache.
Teeth are among the most distinctive features of mammal species and fossils as well.
Mean platelet dry mass (MPM) (also called mean platelet mass) is a calculated parameter and may correlate with the platelet functional status.
There is a strong association between HLA DR2/DQ1 and idiopathic narcolepsy in both the Japanese and Caucasian population.
It is known to cause disease in both animals and man.
A species of gram-negative bacteria infecting DOGS, the natural hosts, and causing canine BRUCELLOSIS.
Parasite of rats and snails that can cause eosinophilic infiltration of the intestinal wall in humans
Because further work suggested that the Ne^a gene was allelic to LW, they were renamed LW^a and LW^b (Ne^a).
Like corn and some other crops of long domestication, the relationship of the modern soybean to wild-growing species can no longer be traced with any degree of certainty.
Oligoclonal band assays most often focus on IgG bands which have the most prognostic value.
Subtype D is generally only seen in Eastern and central Africa.
Administration of Vitamin K is the antidote for dicoumarol toxicity.
Hexanoic acid (C6:0) is a medium chain triglyceride (MCT) found naturally in various animal fats and oils.
Antibodies against metabotropic glutamate receptor type 1 (mGluR1) are associated with a rare autoimmune encephalitis.
Thyroid secrectory capacity is elevated in hyperthyroidism and reduced in hypothyroidism.
Most selenium is in the form of selenomethionine in animal and human tissues, where it can be incorporated nonspecifically with the amino acid methionine in body proteins.
During that time, antibodies and complement work to eradicate the bacilli, but some of the extracellular bacilli will evade attack and enter another host cell.
Sexual orientation is independent of gender identity and biological sex.
This toxin is excreted by EC that infects newly weaned pigs and causes edema disease.
Short-term MA abuse causes an increase of energy, sense of well-being and decreased appetite that lasts 6-8 hours.
The chromium-release assay uses titrations of effector cells (that are assumed to be NK cells) that are incubated with the target cells.
The protein encoded by this gene is a zinc finger transcription factor and contains an N-terminal POZ domain.
In immunology, the CD3 antigen (CD stands for cluster of differentiation) is a protein complex composed of four distinct chains (CD3γ, CD3δ and two times CD3ε) in mammals, that associate with molecules known as the T cell receptor (TCR) and the ζ-chain to generate an activation signal in T lymphocytes.
It is used medicinally as a local anesthetic and vasoconstrictor in nasal surgery and to dilate pupils.
Juniperus scopulorum (Rocky Mountain Juniper) is a small tree reaching 5-20 m tall, native to western North America, in Canada in British Columbia and southwest Alberta, in the United States from Washington east to North Dakota, south to Arizona and also locally western Texas, and northernmost Mexico from Sonora east to Coahuila.
The presence of SLA antibodies has almost 100% specificity for autoimmune hepatitis, although only 12-30% have these antibodies.
Foods prepared in the home from raw eggs such as mayonnaise, cakes and cookies can spread salmonella if not properly cooked before consumption.
This gene is one of several tumor-suppressing subtransferable fragments located in the imprinted gene domain of 11p15.5, an important tumor-suppressor gene region.
Microarray can detect aneuploidies, deletions, duplications, and amplifications of any locus within the array.
Symptoms of later breakouts include upper respiratory tract illness as in a cold and sore throat.
Other ribosomal antigens are L12 protein, L5/5s, S10, Ja, L7 and rRNA (ribosomal ribonucleoprotein)
In serum, an increase is associated with sarcoidosis and exposure to asbestos, for example.
Histones are small nuclear proteins that together with dsDNA, represent a nucleosome, the structural unit of chromatin.
A peptide, of about 33 amino acids, secreted by the upper INTESTINAL MUCOSA and also found in the central nervous system.
The MYCN gene encodes for a protein involved in the formation of tissues and organs during fetal development.
T-uptake % and THBR generally are inversely proportional to the number of unoccupied thyroid hormone binding sites present.
Deficiencies of BPGM and bisphosphoglycerate phosphatase (BPGP) are associated with mild erythrocytosis due to absence of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG).
For a stimulation test, a sample of blood is drawn after 10-12 hours of fasting.
Rye grass pollen is a very common inducer of asthma, allergic rhinitis and allergic conjunctivitis
Prototheca is an opportunistic pathogen that is a nonphotosynthetic chlorophyte (green alga) readily isolated in fungal culture.
A deficiency may also cause dry and scaling skin, fluid in the mucous membranes, and iron-deficiency anemia.
The ratio of early diastolic tissue velocity to tissue velocity during atrial contraction (e'/a') may also be an indicator of left ventricular function but is less reliable than the E/e' ratio.
Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) is a member of the herpes-virus family and is the causative agent of infectious mononucleosis(IM).
The EGR2 gene (early growth response 2) is located on chromosome 10q21.1.
B cereus is also a less common cause of bacteremia/septicemia, endocarditis, meningitis, and infections of wounds, the ears, eyes, respiratory tract, and urinary tract.
Bivalirudin (trade names Angiomax or Angiox) is a specific and reversible direct thrombin inhibitor (DTI).
However, mutations in this gene, the telomeric copy, are associated with spinal muscular atrophy; mutations in the centromeric copy do not lead to disease.
Cough, wheezing, shortness of breath, fever, stuffy nose, and skin itching/rash on exposure to grain dust have also been reported, as well as "grain fever".
Therefore, 6-8 units of random donor platelets are pooled into one bag of "Pooled Platelets".
Diminished levels have been linked to heightened systemic oxidative stress and atherosclerosis risk.
Clot retraction is the "shrinking" of a blood clot over a number of days.
It is palatable grass for livestock and is used both as forage (pasture) and fodder (hay and silage); it has high amounts of phosphorus and calcium in its tissues.
MPL W515K + W515K mutations are present in patients with idiopathic myelofibrosis or essential thrombocythemia.
This gene encodes an endoplasmic reticulum-resident type II transmembrane glycosyltransferase involved in the chain elongation step of heparan sulfate biosynthesis.
Cockroach may commonly induce symptoms of asthma, allergic rhinitis, allergic conjunctivitis and allergic dermatitis in sensitised individuals.
Ureaplasma parvum and Ureaplasma urealyticum are a bacteria species of Genus Ureaplasma and potentially pathogenic, causing both genital infections and male infertility.
Mutations in the IDH1 & IDH2 genes are associated with various conditions, including 2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria, Maffucci syndrome, Ollier disease, cholangiocarcinoma, acute myeloid leukemia, myelofibrosis, and gliomas.
It is active against gram-negative bacteria and used for the treatment of gonorrhea.
WES and whole-genome sequencing (WGS) are performed to identify the cause of heritable diseases and for various other applications, including population genetics and cancer studies.
Similar to B. melitensis, B. suis can cause abortion in pregnant hosts.
The antibodies that attack the neural tissue develop in response to tumor cells.
In sensitized individuals flaxseed has caused occupational asthma, contact dermatitis, and rare cases of anaphylaxis.
Genetic variations in UGT1A1 can also affect the response (i.e., efficacy or toxicity) to drugs metabolized by UGT1A1 (e.g., irintotecan) or that inhibit UGT1A1 function (e.g., atazanavir).
It is also used to evaluate complement component deficiency, complement activity in patients with immune complexes, glomerulonephritis, rheumatoid arthritis, and cryoglobulinemia.
The THRB gene (thyroid hormone receptor, beta) is located on chromosome 3p24.2.
Serpula lacrymans is one of the fungi that are responsible for dry rot.
S. agalactiae typically presents as skin and soft tissue infections; while meningitis and endocarditis are rare presentations, they are marked with serious morbidity and mortality.
House dust mite allergens are divided into 13 groups that are based on their biochemical structure, sequence homology, and molecular weight.
Arbovirus is a term used to refer to a group of viruses that are transmitted by arthropod vectors.
As a neurotransmitter, aspartic acid may provide resistance to fatigue and thus lead to endurance, although the evidence to support this idea is not strong.
The second generation agents have even larger lipid-soluble substituents at the 3-position (e.g. brodifacoum), a chemical change that causes their half life in the body to be greatly increased (sometimes to months).
Complex chromosome structural alterations can be detected by using cytogenetic methods such as chromosome painting analysis.
Free GABA levels may be elevated in the CSF of patients suffering from neurological diseases with inflammation and tissular necrosis such as cerebral cysticercosis.
B. A trivalent metalloid element, boron occurs abundantly in the ore borax.
It relocalizes to the plasma membrane under conditions of elevated extracellular copper, and functions in the efflux of copper from cells.
Gas flow refers to the movement of air and gases in and out of the lung.
Other CICs tests include PEG precipitation, radial immunodiffusion and cellular based assays, such as the Raji cell assay.
It maintains a natural reservoir in the songbird population of freshwater swamps (generally scrub jays and blue jays) and is transmitted by the bite of the female Culiseta melanura mosquito.
The anterior angle formed by the Sella-Nasion plane and the Mandibular plane, using Menton (Gonion-Menton)
Mortality rates due to C. krusei bloodstream infection have been reported at nearly 50%.C krusei is naturally resistant to fluconazole and has decreased susceptibility to both flucytosine and amphotericin B.
It is today used to flavor some maple products and can be used as an alternative to cane sugar.
A mixture of polymyxins B1 and B2, obtained from Bacillus polymyxa strains.
JWH-250 is considered a synthetic cannabinoid and a scheduled I controlled substance.
Diseases associated with MRRF include end stage renal failure and lyme disease.
It is spread through sexual contact, artificial insemination, and aerosol transmission.
This drug is found not only in many plants, but also in trace amounts in the human body, where its natural function remains undetermined.
It is calculated as a molar ratio of total testosterone to sex hormone binding globulin (SHBG).
It is formed after O-demethylation of noroxycodone by CYP2D6 and to a lesser extent by N-demethylation of oxymorphone by Cyp3A4 and 2D6.
Earlier papers referred to calreticulin as an Ro/SS-A antigen but this was later disproven.
Mutations in this gene are associated with Birt-Hogg-Dube syndrome, which is characterized by fibrofolliculomas, renal tumors, lung cysts, and pneumothorax.
It is a derivative of coumarin, a substance made by plants that does not itself affect coagulation, but which is (classically) transformed in mouldy feeds by a number of species of fungi into active dicoumarol.
In this test, a shot of GnRH is administered to a patient and the LH level is observed over a specified period of time.
Spotting therefore tend to be heavier where the local soil is calcium-deficient, and in the eggs laid last in a clutch.
Bromus inermis is a species of the true grass family (Poaceae).
One of the CEPHALOSPORINS that has a broad spectrum of activity against both gram-positive and gram-negative microorganisms.
Some animal species can have convulsions and incoordination followed by posterior paresis and quadriplegia, blindness and decreased hemoglobin.
This enzyme is involved in the metabolism of approximately half the drugs in use today, including acetaminophen, codeine, cyclosporin A, diazepam and erythromycin.
Trichloroethane may be harmful by inhalation, ingestion and skin contact.
Rotaviruses cause significant gastrointestinal disease, primarily in children under 5 years old.
The epithelium-specific expression of the gamma 2 chain implied its role as an epithelium attachment molecule, and mutations in this gene have been associated with junctional epidermolysis bullosa, a skin disease characterized by blisters due to disruption of the epidermal-dermal junction.
The ligands of this receptor include monocyte chemoattractant protein 2 (MCP-2), macrophage inflammatory protein 1 alpha (MIP-1 alpha), macrophage inflammatory protein 1 beta (MIP-1 beta) and regulated on activation normal T expressed and secreted protein (RANTES).
The CTRC gene (chymotrypsin C) is located on chromosome 1p36.21.
If taken beyond the recommended dosage, acetaminophen can cause significant liver damage.
A schistocyte or schizocyte is a fragmented part of a red blood cell (RBC).
After removal of the precursor signal peptide, proinsulin is post-translationally cleaved into three peptides: the B chain and A chain peptides, which are covalently linked via two disulfide bonds to form insulin, and C-peptide.
Reboxetine is an antidepressant drug used in the treatment of clinical depression, panic disorder and ADD/ADHD.
Testing for IgE antibodies may be used to help diagnose an allergic disease or the cause of an anaphylactic episode in a patient.
It is classified into five types designated A through E. Four toxins are produced by C. perfringens that have lethal, necrotic and cytotoxic capabilities.
The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the protein tyrosine phosphatase (PTP) family.
Mutations in this gene cause Alexander disease, a rare disorder of astrocytes in the central nervous system.
Patients with AMACRD have variable neurodegenerative symptoms, including seizures, visual failure, sensorimotor neuropathy, spasticity, and migraines.
While methoxychlor does not bioaccumulate in the tissue of mammals, it is very persistent in soil and has a half-live of more than six months.
EBV (Epstein-Barr virus) is known to bind to the B lymphocyte via the CD22 receptor.
An occupational allergen, which may result in allergy symptoms in sensitised individuals.
The encoded protein is cleaved to its activated form by the thrombin-thrombomodulin complex.
In 2013, the virus was discovered in clinical specimens of pigs with respiratory disease in the United States.
Protein testing is performed to evaluate and monitor liver and kidney function and to detect and diagnose early kidney damage and various other diseases.
Tetranychus urticae (an animal with over 60 common names, including red spider mite and two-spotted spider mite) is one of many species of plant-feeding mites found in dry environments, and generally considered a pest.
A citrate is an ionic form of citric acid, such as C3 H5 O(COO)3 3ˆ', that is, citric acid minus three hydrogen ions.
Metaxalone (marketed by King Pharmaceuticals under the brand name Skelaxin) is a muscle relaxant used to relax muscles and relieve pain caused by strains, sprains, and other musculoskeletal conditions.
The production of the 2-DCE-IF metabolites leads to equimolar amounts of chloroacetaldehyde, which is thought to be responsible for the nephrotoxic and neurotoxic adverse-effects associated with IF.
The main function of the estrogen receptor is as a DNA binding transcription factor which regulates gene expression.
Lumpyskin disease has an incubation period of two to four weeks.
In countries where preventative care is not practiced, RV is still widespread.
Brown pigment formed from hemoglobin by oxidation of the ferrous to the ferric state.
Glycine, a hydrophillic amino acid with uncharged polar groups, is a primary marker for nonketotic hyperglycinemia (glycine encephalopathy).
These targets along with other target sequences (e.g. IS481) are used to detect and differentiate between B. pertussis, B. parapertussis, B. holmesii and other Bordetella species.
Measures galactose-1-phosphate concentrations when galactosemia patients are challenged with galactose load.
TcdA and tcdB are expressed in response to environmental stresses, such as antibiotics.
CK8 and 18 also interact with plakins and proteins that have transmembrane domains at desmosomes and hemidesmosomes.
The screening starts with testing for IgA and IgG antibodies to deamidated gliadin peptide (DGP) and tissue transglutaminase (tTG) that allows for simultaneous detection for all four types of antibodies in one test (tTG/DGP screen).
The PINK1 gene (PTEN induced putative kinase 1) is located on chromosome 1p36.
PGDH deficiency is associated with congenital microcephaly, psychomotor retardation, and seizures.
Middle East Respiratory Syndrome (MERS) is an illness caused by the virus Middle East Respiratory Syndrome Coronovirus (MERS-CoV).
Flare is the presence of fibrin in the aqueous humor due to intraocular inflammation.
Anecdotal evidence suggests that asthma, allergic rhinitis and allergic conjunctivitis are common following exposure to pollen from Rough marshelder
Cocaethylene is formed in the body when cocaine and alcohol have been taken simultaneously: the transesterification is catalysed by carboxylesterases in the liver.
Slight decreases may occur with deficiencies of lipoic acid or thiamine.
Wild forms occur as weeds in many parts of central Asia and Europe.
The fungus gives rise to two different kinds of infections on grapes.
A deficiency in ASCORBIC ACID can result in impaired hydroxyproline formation.
Johnson grass is a robust perennial native to North Africa, South Asia, and southern Europe.
Self-infection occurs by transferring infective eggs to the mouth with hands that have scratched the perianal area.
Cross-reactivity to Parrot, Budgerigar, Pigeon, Goose and Duck have been reported in Chicken-allergic patients.
Niacin (also known as B3 or nicotinic acid) is a water-soluble nutrient that is part of the B vitamin family.
These recognition markers are essential for appropriate trafficking of lysosomal enzymes.
Both immunoglobulin M (IgM) and immunoglobulin G (IgG) antibodies usually rise near the end of the first week of illness.
Allergen-specific IgE to Urtica has also been detected due to occupational sensitisation.
Neurofilaments (Nfs) are the dominant proteins of the axonal cytoskeleton and are composed of 3 subunits, a light (NfL, 68-70 kDa), a medium (NfM, 145-160 kDa) and a heavy (NfH, 200-220 kDa) chain.
It is biosynthesized from myristic acid by the enzyme delta-9 desaturase, but it is uncommon in nature.
Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
Enterococci are able to form biofilm in the prostate gland making their eradication difficult.
Dermatophytes include three types of fungi that commonly cause skin disease in animals and humans: Microsporum, Epidermophyton and Trichophyton.
Aluminum salts are remarkably nontoxic, aluminum sulfate having an LD50 of 6207 mg/kg (oral, mouse), which corresponds to 500 grams for an 80 kg (180 lb) person.
There are also two other less common isomeric compounds, 1,2-dioxane and 1,3-dioxane.
3-Hydroxyhippuric acid is a microbial aromatic acid metabolite derived from dietary polyphenols, found in normal human urine.
The ratio of PML-RARA fusion transcript to a control gene (e.g. ABL1) may be reported for positive samples.
The testing of corticotropin, a pituitary function, is useful in the diagnosis of Cushings syndrome, Addison's disease, ectopic ACTH syndrome and adrenal carcinoma.
Testing for elevated levels of 5HIAA in 24 hour urine specimens is 73% sensitive and 100% specific for the diagnosis of carcinoid tumors.
It is used in tuberculosis diagnosis by whole blood interferon γ tests, e.g. QuantiFERON-TB Gold and T-SPOT.TB, in conjunction with CFP-10 and TB7.7 (QuantiFERON-TB Gold).
Transcelluar fluid is primarily contained in organs, such as the gastrointestinal, cerebrospinal and ocular fluids.
Viral ribonucleoprotein complexes are released into the cytoplasm, travel to the nucleus, then are replicated and transcribed by the viral polymerase complex.
It may also be prescribed as an anticonvulsant or muscle relaxant.
It is the most common tree found in Scandinavia and the Alps, and a potent pollen producer in those areas.
The fruit of Citrus sinensis is called sweet orange to distinguish it from Citrus aurantium, the bitter orange.
In the mammalian brain the majority of AChE occurs as a tetrameric, G4 form (10) with much smaller amounts of a monomeric G1 (4S) form.
Laminaribiose is a disaccharide which is used notably in the agricultural field and as an antiseptic.
4-Hydroxyvalerate is an exogenous compound sometimes found in organic acid analysis.
Ubiquinone reductase, also known as mitochondrial complex I, catalyzes the first step of the mitochondrial electron transport chain: the oxidation of NADH with electron transfer to ubiquinone (Coenzyme Q, CoQ), which is a lipid-soluble electron carrier embedded in the lipid bilayer of the inner mitochondrial membrane.
Most tumors associated with CAR include small-cell lung cancer and gynecological malignancies.
The PNKD gene (paroxysmal nonkinesigenic dyskinesia) is located on chromosome 2q35.
Integrins are heterodimeric integral membrane proteins composed of an alpha chain and a beta chain.
N6,N6,N6-Trimethyl-L-lysine residues are found in a number of proteins and are generated by the action of S-adenosyl-L-methionine on exposed lysine residues.
The Akabane virus is an insect-transmitted virus that causes congenital abnormalities of the central nervous systems in ruminants.
It is thought to act via NF-κB (nuclear factor-kappa B) inhibition and free radical scavenging.
One of the centrally acting MUSCARINIC ANTAGONISTS used for treatment of PARKINSONIAN DISORDERS and drug-induced extrapyramidal movement disorders and as an antispasmodic.
The great majority of silicates are oxides, but hexafluorosilicate (2−) and other anions are also included.
Direct human-to-human transmission has been documented to occur perinatally, sexually (primarily through semen), through breastfeeding, blood transfusion and through occupational transmission in the laboratory setting.
Although HAV is excreted in the feces towards the end of the incubation period, specific diagnosis is made by the detection of HAV-specific IgM antibodies in the blood.
The affected area will start to swell within seconds of being stung.
A relatively rare, soft, bluish-white, toxic transition metal, cadmium occurs with zinc ores and is used largely in batteries.
The largemouth bass (Micropterus salmoides) is a species of fish in the sunfish family.
The encoded protein appears to direct neuronal migration by regulating the organization and stability of microtubules.
Eighty-five percent of Na is located in the blood and lymph fluid.
Crystal casts are casts that contain crystals within the matrix.
It is used to make rubbers, polymers and copolymers, and polystyrene plastics.
Anecdotal evidence suggests that Persimmon can occasionally induce symptoms of food allergy in sensitised individuals; however, few studies have been reported to date.
It was first shown to be found in endothelial cells in 1989.
It has been used as a sarcoma tumor marker to identify mesenchyme.
Immunodepressed patients as well as infants and children may have severe diarrhea.
The CTSK gene (cathepsin K) is located on chromosome 1q21.
The ANA spindle fibers pattern is not specific for any one or group of autoimmune disorders.
The proteins mediate signal transduction events that play a role in the regulation of cell development, activation, growth and motility.
Moderately increased levels of IDL and VLDL cholesterol are closely associated with coronary artery disease.
Also unlike amphetamines, fencamfamine does not inhibit the action of monoamine oxidase enzymes and so is somewhat safer.
Risperidone has a significantly lower 5-HT2A/D2 binding ratio and crosses the BBB more effectively.
It is believed that interferon-beta based drugs achieve their beneficial effect on MS progress via their anti-inflammatory properties.
In contrast to patients with 1 pathogenic mutation and the low-expression allele, missense mutations are far more common than null mutations.
It is used for the prophylaxis of thrombosis and embolism in many disorders.
The protein encoded by this gene is a membrane protein that catalyzes the addition of an alkyl group from an akylamine to a glutamine residue of a protein, forming an alkylglutamine in the protein.
This protein can interact with a variety of POZ-containing proteins that function as transcription corepressors.
Homocysteine is an independent cardiovascular disease (CVD) risk factor modifiable by nutrition and possibly exercise.
Immune complexes result from the interactions between antibodies, antigens, and their corresponding receptors.
Naltrexone and its active metabolite 6-beta-naltrexol are competitive antagonists at μ- and κ-opioid receptors, and to a lesser extent at δ-opioid receptors.
In a recent study, only 1 out of 40 health care workers tested, and no patient with spina bifida, was reported to have Hev b 9-specifc IgE antibodies.
Defects in this gene have been identified as the underlying cause of adrenoleukodystrophy, an X-chromosome recessively inherited demyelinating disorder of the nervous system.
This item is used by the National Center for Health Statistics (NCHS) to report tabulated race data.
Base deficit is usually reported as a negative base excess.
Antibodies to Bcl-2 can be used with immunohistochemistry to identify cells containing the antigen.
Candida lusitaniae is a species of yeast in the genus Candida.
School staff uses this Information to guide and authorize their treatment of the child's diabetes while at school.
Fascin binds beta-catenin, and colocalizes with it at the leading edges and borders of epithelial and endothelial cells.
They promote the development of female secondary sex characteristics, such as breasts, and are also involved in the thickening of the endometrium and other aspects of regulating the menstrual cycle.
Mutations in this gene cause Leber congenital amaurosis type V. Alternatively spliced transcript variants are described.
IgE-mediated sensitivity to egg proteins in egg-processing workers has been reported.
Western ragweed is an erect, coarse herbaceous perennial with a creeping rootstock.
Myogenin is induced during differentiation of every skeletal muscle cell line that has been investigated, in contrast to the other myogenic regulatory factors that only appear in certain cell types.
TRH secretion is controlled in a negative feedback system by thyroid hormones.
A purine base found in most body tissues and fluids, certain plants, and some urinary calculi.
Anaplasmas reside in host red blood cells and lead to anaplasmosis, a disease most commonly occurs in tropical areas of the world.
Protein phosphatase 3 (formerly 2B), catalytic subunit, gamma isoform, also known as PPP3CC, is a human gene.
Both of these bile acids are formed from cholesterol and converted by intestinal bacteria (through deconjugation and 7-alpha-hydroxylation) to the secondary bile acids, deoxycholic acid and lithocholic acid.
Tissue inhibitor of metalloproteinases-1 (TIMP-1) is a widely expressed, secreted 28kDa protein.
Gangliosides are more complex glycosphingolipids in which oligosaccharide chains containing N-acetylneuraminic acid (NeuNAc) are attached to a ceramide.
Arsenic compounds can be categorized into three groups: inorganic, organic, and arsine gas.
Peanuts are a significant cause of serious food allergy in both adults and children.
HCoV-NL63 typically infects children and the immunocommpromised, with mild upper respiratory symptoms (cough, runny nose, fever) or more actue lower respiratory tract involvement such as bronchiolitis and croup.
Ganglioside is a molecule composed of a glycosphingolipid (ceramide and oligosaccharide) with one or more sialic acids (AKA n-acetylneuraminic acid, NANA) linked on the sugar chain.
Polychromatophilic red cells are larger and younger than mature red cells and appear blue-gray on a blood smear.
Dechlorane is a white, stable odorless, synthetic, crystalline solid organochlorine insecticide and fire- retardant.
Mutations in this gene are associated with sialuria, autosomal recessive inclusion body myopathy, and Nonaka myopathy.
The SMN1 gene (survival of motor neuron 1, telomeric) is located on chromosome 5q13.2.
ESAT-6, the 6 kDa early secretory antigenic target of Mycobacterium tuberculosis, is a secretory protein and potent T cell antigen.
It is a vasoconstrictor, and can be administered by inhalation to the nasal mucosa to exert its effect.
Androstenetriol is found in urine in healthy subjects during growth and is one of the markers that reflects the changes of the adrenarche process in boys and girls (Adrenarche is the adrenal glands maturaty).
Benefits of iohexal include its safety, stability, ease of use, relatively low cost, and low inter-lab measurement variation.
In January 2008, the Food and Drug Administration approved its use for patients with established resistance to other drugs, making it the 30th anti-HIV drug approved in the United States and the first to be approved in 2008.
Currently (2010), four standardization protocols exist for measuring Hgb A1c: 1. IFCC - designated as a Reference Method or RM suggests the use of alternate measures, such as glycated albumen, for patients with severe iron deficiency, dialysis patients, and those with SS SC CC because of over or under reading that can occur with these interferences.
Structurally, transferrin is a polypeptide with two N-linked polysaccharide chains.
The dosage of nitrous oxide being administered is set and monitored throughout general anesthesia.
Abnormal plasma/serum levels can be seen in liver or kidney disorders, and also in clinical conditions such as HIV and mood disorders.
It is marketed under various trade names, including Dalacin, Duac, BenzaClin, and Clindoxyl and Acanya (in combination with benzoyl peroxide), and Ziana (with tretinoin).
The general population risk of Down syndrome is 1 out of 650 to 1,000 live births; for a 30-year-old woman, the risk is 1 out of 1,000, while for a 40-year-old woman it nears 1 out of 100.
Compared with the nerve agent sarin, VX is considered to be much more toxic by entry through the skin and somewhat more toxic by inhalation.
A. flavus causes aspergillosis in humans, especially among immunocompromised patients.
They are represent about 1 of 10,000 myeloid cellls in bone marrow.
The presence of GAD antibodies in a patient recently diagnosed with diabetes indicates a high risk of requiring insulin within three years.
Rituximab (trade names Rituxan, MabThera and Zytux) is a chimeric monoclonal antibody against the protein CD20, which is primarily found on the surface of immune system B cells.
Perimetry or campimetry is one way to test the visual field by systematically measuring differential light sensitivity in the visual field by the detection of test targets on a defined background.
The chromosomal translocation t(12;21)(p13;q22) results in a fused transcript between ETV6-RUNX1 (TEL-AML1) genes and is the most common translocation in B cell childhood acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL), accounting for 25% of childhood ALL.
Gonadotropin releasing hormone (GnRH) is a hormone secreted by the hypothalamus in order to stimulate the release of luteinizing hormone (LH), follicle stimulating hormone (FSH) and gonadotropins from the pituitary gland.
The KCNQ1OT1 transcript is the antisense to the KCNQ1 gene and is a unspliced long non-coding RNA.
Azelaic acid was chosen for further investigation and development of a new topical drug for treating hyperpigmentary disorders for the following reasons: it possesses a middle-range of antityrosinase activity, is inexpensive, and more soluble to be incorporated into a base cream than other dicarboxylic acids.
For example, if the patient had a total output of 3L and total input of 2L during a session of hemodialysis, the net fluid removed is 1L.
However, individuals who inherit two no function TPMT alleles universally experience life-threatening myelosuppression.
Defects in this gene are a cause of startle disease (STHE), also known as hereditary hyperekplexia or congenital stiff-person syndrome.
One method of assessing neutrophil function uses flow cytometry to measure the fluorescence of neutrophils that have been stimulated in the presence of the nonfluorescent dye dihydrorhodamine 123 (DHR 123), which, when oxidized, produces the fluorescent compound rhodamine 123.
Most ADRs relate to administration technique (resulting in systemic exposure) or pharmacological effects of anesthesia, however allergic reactions can rarely occur.
AA is released from the cell membrane when acted upon by phospholipases and then metabolized by cyclooxygenase (COX) producing the prostanoids prostaglandin and thromboxane A2, which can stimulate or mitigate inflammation.
Enemas are used to flush out stool, administer nutrients and medications or provide contrast materials for the use of an examination of the lower intestine (e.g. barium enema).
Unlike the aPTT, the anti-Xa assay is not influenced by additional coagulation factors of intrinsic and common pathways and inhibitors.
It also causes leaf spot on lettuce, and can be found growing on a wide range of vegetables including beans and peas.
Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
For example, as of 2014 the blaOXA-23-like group included 19 genes, including including blaOXA-23, -27, -49, and -73.
There are two forms of GHBP described as low-affinity GHBP and high-affinity GHBP.
This gene encodes a class III receptor tyrosine kinase that regulates hematopoiesis.
This may in part be related to the many dissimilarities in sdLDL test methods.
It is approved by the FDA for hay fever (a.k.a. allergic rhinitis, SAR and PAR); vasomotor rhinitis; mild urticaria; angioedema, dermatographism and allergic conjunctivitis.
The time interval between the end of the a' wave (atrial contraction), and the beginning of s' is also an indicator of systolic ventricular function, whereas the interval between the end of s' and the beginning of the e' wave (early diastole) is an indicator of diastolic ventricular function.
Additional testing specific to HIV-2 should be considered if HIV-1 test results are atypical or inconsistent with clinical findings, especially for persons from West Africa.
A species of PNEUMOCYSTIS infecting humans and causing PNEUMOCYSTIS PNEUMONIA.
Mutations in this gene are associated with Pendred syndrome, the most common form of syndromic deafness, an autosomal-recessive disease.
The neoplastic lymphocytes seen in Large Granular Lymphocytic Leukemia are large in size with azurophilic granules that contains proteins involved in cell lysis such as perforin and granzyme B.
Rheumatoid factor (RF or RhF) is a blood test performed in patients with suspected rheumatoid arthritis (RA).
S. maltophilia are slightly smaller than other members of the genus.
When the blood pH value is below normal range it is called acidosis.
The PDGFRB gene (platelet-derived growth factor receptor, beta polypeptide) is located on chromosome 5q33.1.
Polyunsaturated fatty acids (PUFA) are those that contain more than one double bond.
Maxatase and Alcalase (which have sometimes been considered virtually interchangeable) come from B. licheniformis.
It was brought to market, instead, in a clandestine fashion as a "designer steroid.
The genome is a single molecule of negative-sense RNA that encodes five major proteins: glycoprotein (G), matrix protein (M), nucleoprotein, large protein (L) and phosphoprotein.
The quantitative determination of proviral HIV-1 DNA load is determined for antiretroviral treatment, particularly when HIV-1 RNA levels drop below the detectable limits during treatment.
It is non-encapsulated, does not sporulate, is immobile, and appears as straight or aggregated curved rods with a length of 1 to 8 µm and width of 0.3 to 0.8 µm.
The neoplasm may or may not be detectable using conventional imaging modalities.
MKs play a role in the pathogenesis of acute megakaryocytic leukaemia and a subset of myeloproliferative neoplasms, including essential thrombocythemia and primary myelofibrosis.
Mutations in this gene result in the metabolic disorder glutaric aciduria type 1, which is also known as glutaric acidemia type I. Alternative splicing of this gene results in multiple transcript variants.
The isoform 14-3-3o is believed to have a role in human cancer development.
In the months after the flooding, cases of leptospirosis increased, and L. borgpetersenii was found to be the infectious agent in nearly 50% of human leptospirosis cases, whereas previously it had been identified only rarely.
Dichloroethane can refer to either of two isomeric organochlorides with the molecular formula C2H4Cl2: 1,1-Dichloroethane (ethylidene dichloride) or 1,2-Dichloroethane (ethylene dichloride)
RNA polymerase III (also called Pol III) transcribes DNA to synthesize ribosomal 5S rRNA, tRNA and other small RNAs, such as 5S rRNA and tRNAs.
ALB2 is an important factor in cytoskeletal rearrangements and involved in cell growth and survival.
Side effects of risperidone include significant weight gain and metabolic problems, as well as tardive dyskinesia and neuroleptic malignant syndrome.
Parietaria pollen allergens (officinalis, judaica, lusitanica, creatica) are one of the most common causes of pollinosis in areas where the plants grow.
EEG signal quality index (SQI) reflects the quality of the EEG signal based on impedance measurement and is calculated at a particular moment in time based on measurements taken in the immediately preceding time period, such as 60 to 90 seconds.
Three of the transcript variants are supported by experimental evidence and the fourth contains alternate 5' untranslated exons, the exact combination of which have not been experimentally confirmed for the full-length transcript.
A trinucleotide repeat (CGG) in the 5' UTR is normally found at 6-53 copies, but an expansion to 55-230 repeats is the cause of fragile X syndrome.
Mutations in this gene, some of which alter subcellular targetting, have been associated with type I primary hyperoxaluria.
It is formed in a non-enzymatic glycation pathway by hemoglobin's exposure to plasma glucose.
The adult worms live and reproduce in the human lymphatic system, creating millions of microscopic worms called microfilariae.
Nonsoluble calcium oxalate crystals are found in plant stems, roots, and leaves.
This is the NPUAP stage of the wound tissue of the most severe or highest staged pressure ulcer observed on a patient.
Animal allergens are major components of farm, home and animal laboratory dust.
ALPI (intestinal), ALPL (tissue non-specific, liver/bone/kidney), and ALPP (placental, aka Regan isozyme).
2-Dechlroethylifosfamide (2-DCE-IF) is a metabolite that results from dealkylation of ifosfamide (IF), a chemotherapeutic agent used to treat solid tumors.
Spruce trees are native to northern Europe, from Scandinavia to the Alps.
Animal allergens are major components of house and animal laboratory dust.
The previously defined group FANCH is the same as FANCA.
6-oxo-pipecolate (6-oxo-PIP) and two diastereomers of 2-oxopropylpiperidine-2-carobylic acid (2-OPP) are identified biomarkers for pyridoxine-dependent epilepsy (PDE-ALDH7A1).
Estimated maximum stimulated amount of thyroxine that the thyroid can produce in one second.
The genome of the virus is a single molecule of negative-sense RNA that encodes five major proteins: glycoprotein (G), matrix protein (M), nucleoprotein, large protein (L) and phosphoprotein.
Mutations in this gene have been associated with monogenic autosomal dominant non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus type I. Alternative splicing of this gene results in multiple transcript variants encoding several different isoforms.
It also acts to lower the blood pressure, and is therefore a drug of choice for men with hypertension and prostate enlargement.
Mutations in this gene cause two forms of inherited human muscle disorders: recessive generalized myotonia congenita (Becker) and dominant myotonia (Thomsen).
Sulfites (also sulphites) are compounds that contain the sulfite ion SO2−3
Enterobiasis is frequently asymptomatic with the most common symptom being perianal pruritus.
AmpC enzymes hydrolyze a variety of antimicrobials, including cephalosporins, penicillins, and aztreonam.
Occupational exposure to Anise may occur in spice factory workers and in liqueur and spirit manufacturers.
HE4 may augment the sensitivity of CA 125 for detecting early-stage ovarian cancer.
Most of the Neisseria sp are normal flora of the upper respiratory tract and oropharynx.
Plasmin, an enzyme that degrades many blood plasma proteins (most notably fibrin clots) is released as a zymogen called plasminogen (PLG) from the liver into the systemic circulation.
The serotonin release assay (SRA) is a functional test for the detection of heparin-dependent antibodies in heparin-induced thrombocytopenia (HIT).
It is dangerously poisonous to fish and other aquatic wildlife.
As the average amount of plasma glucose increases, the fraction of glycated hemoglobin increases in a predictable way.
A serotype of SALMONELLA ENTERICA which is an agent of PARATYPHOID FEVER in humans.
Vitamin D sufficiency prevents rickets in children and osteomalacia in adults.
A myristate is a salt or ester of myristic acid.
DP T cells have been described in patients with certain conditions, such as multiple sclerosis, myasthenia gravis, rheumatoid arthritis, systemic sclerosis, Kawasaki disease, and HIV and EBV infections, but their exact role or function is not well understood.
Egg-specific IgE antibodies are usually the first antibodies to appear in children developing atopic disease.
In chronic granulomatous disease neutrophils are unable to reduce the Nitro blue dye which correlates with their ability to kill bacteria.
Such documents are commonly used in Transfer of Care scenarios.
This protein is involved in the ubiquitination and degradation of hypoxia-inducible-factor (HIF), which is a transcription factor that plays a central role in the regulation of gene expression by oxygen.
The late onset form of MULTIPLE CARBOXYLASE DEFICIENCY (deficiency of the activities of biotin-dependent enzymes propionyl-CoA carboxylase, methylcrotonyl-CoA carboxylase, and PYRUVATE CARBOXYLASE) due to a defect or deficiency in biotinidase which is essential for recycling BIOTIN.
Eriobotrya japonica, commonly known as loquat, is a dense tree with dark green leaves and clusters of yellow edible fruit.
Oatmeal stout is one variety brewed using a percentage of oats for the wort.
Proteus sp. presence in soil, is a sign of fecal pollution and poses a risk of water and seafood contamination.
Although it is often called an amino acid, even in scientific literature, it lacks a carboxyl group and therefore does not qualify as an amino acid.
It is also needed for bone growth and bone remodeling by osteoblasts and osteoclasts.
Transcobalamin I (TCN1), also known as haptocorrin, R-factor, and R-protein, is a glycoprotein produced by the salivary glands of the mouth.
Higher expression levels of this gene in some primary colon carcinomas compared to matched normal colon tissues has been observed.
Exposure to 1,2-dichloroethane, a manufactured industrial chemical, usually occurs by breathing contaminated air in workplaces, such as factories, that use 1,2-dichloroethane.
Mephedrone was first made illegal in Israel in 2008, followed by Sweden later that year.
Cantaloupes range in size from 0.5 kg to 5.0 kg.
Nutrients are substances needed for growth, metabolism, and other body functions.
Fenchlorphos is a white to tan crystalline solid that acts as a cholinesterase inhibitor and is used as an insecticide.
The disease is endemic in swine and has also been reported in other species such as equine where outbreaks have been reported worldwide in foals since 2009.
DPD can be used to monitor antiresorptive therapies in postmenopausal women and in individuals diagnosed with osteoporosis.
Most allergic reactions produced by spices are the result of ingestion, and spices usually act as "hidden" allergens.
Transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been noted for this gene.
Notably, it is active against beta-lactamase -producing organisms such as Staphylococcus aureus, which would otherwise be resistant to most penicillins.
Apolipoproteins are a family of proteins involved in cholesterol transport and metabolism.
The TCID50 result is calculated from the results of the serial dilution procedure by methods such as that published by Reed and Muench (Reed, L.J., Muench, H., 1938.
The TRAF3 gene (TNF receptor-associated factor 3) is located on chromosome 14q32.32.
This white blood cell is found in the bloodstream of a patient with malignant lymphoma.
The vector is a mouse mite and the reservoirs are mites and mice.
It can be treated with the typical systemic antifungal drugs
The cytochrome P450 proteins are monooxygenases which catalyze many reactions involved in drug metabolism and synthesis of cholesterol, steroids and other lipids.
Synthetic cannabinoids interact with the same brain receptors as THC (the active drug present in marijuana) and have been demonstrated to produce similar effects.
The pollination occurs by the wind, is very allergenic, but it is large and does not travel far.
Uropathogenic EC (UPEC) is the most common EC infection that occurs outside the GI tract.
Most of administered gadolinium chelate is excreted promptly in urine with a half life of 60-90 minutes.
The MAP2K2 gene (mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase 2) is located on chromosome 19p13.3.
H antigen deficiency is known as the "Bombay phenotype" and is found in 1 in 10,000 people in India and 1 in 1 million people in Europe.
Canarypox virus vectors are used in vaccine and immunotherapy research.
The mechanism of action by which Salinomycin kills cancer stem cells specifically remains unknown, but is thought to be due to its action as a potassium ionophore due to the detection of Nigericin in the same compound screen.
This gene (NME1) was identified because of its reduced mRNA transcript levels in highly metastatic cells.
Levels are also elevated in conditions such as chronic inflammation, liver disease, renal dysfunction, and some acute viral infections.
Collagen is the main protein of connective tissue in animals and the most abundant protein in mammals, making up about 25% of the total.
Veterinary medicine: Sulfachloropyridazine is a sulfamide antibiotic used to treat gram-negative bacterial infections such as Escherichia coli and Salmonella.
Clinical symptoms associated with ORT infections include tracheitis, airsacculitis, sinusitis, pericarditis and exudative pneumonia.
The "p" in pIS1001 is for parapertussis and "h" in hIS1001 is for holmesii.
Fasciola is a genus of trematodes which includes economically important parasite species.
Enterovirus infection has also been associated with the onset of type I diabetes mellitus.
Deficiency of GALT causes classic galactosemia and can be fatal in the newborn period if lactose is not removed from the diet.
Testing for IgE antibodies may be used to help diagnose an allergic disease or the cause of an anaphylactic episode in a patient.
HTLV-I is an abbreviation for the human T-cell lymphotropic virus type 1, also called the Adult T-cell lymphoma virus type 1, a virus that has been seriously implicated in several kinds of diseases including HTLV-I-associated myelopathy, Strongyloides stercoralis hyper-infection, and a virus cancer link for leukemia (see adult T-cell leukemia/lymphoma).
Today, it is chiefly cultivated in the Netherlands, Eastern Europe and Germany, and also North Africa, particularly Egypt.
According to sequence similarities at the nucleotide and amino acid levels, the gap junction proteins are divided into two categories, alpha and beta.
Vitamin B12 exists in several forms and contains the mineral cobalt, so compounds with vitamin B12 activity are collectively called "cobalamins".
GALE tightly binds nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide (NAD+), a co-factor required for catalytic activity.
Propiomazine is a phenothiazine, but is not used as a neuroleptic because it does not block dopamine receptors well.
The CTNNB1 gene (catenin (cadherin-associated protein), beta 1, 88kDa) is located on chromosome 3p21.
Since glycine has such a small side chain, it can fit into many places where no other amino acid can.
Tregs are important for decreasing the immune response and appear to play a crucial role in the prevention of autoimmune diseases.
Activated protein C resistance (APC) has emerged as the most frequent abnormality in patients with idiopathic thrombosis.
The Streptococcus anginosus group, also known as milleri group streptococci, is a subgroup of viridans streptococci that includes 3 distinct species with clinical similarities: S. anginosus, S. intermedius, and S. constellatus.
It is a monoglycerophospholipid in which a phosphorylcholine moiety occupies a glycerol substitution site Further, LysolPC(24:0) consists of one chain of lignoceric acid at the C-1 (sn-1) position.
JAK2 gene encodes a protein tyrosine kinase that adds a phosphate group to many cellular proteins responsible for signal transduction in a variety of cells.
Iloperidone, also known as Fanapt, Fanapta, and previously known as Zomaril, is an atypical antipsychotic for the treatment of schizophrenia.
As doxepin hydrochloride it is the active ingredient in cream based preparations (Zonalon ® and Xepin ®) for the treatment of dermatological itch.
Many foods contain egg including salad dressings, breads, breaded foods, marshmallows, prepared soups and beverages, frosting, ice cream and sherbets, sausages, prepared meat, and various sauces.
The auto lysis lytA was found in 85% of isolates of Streptococcus pneumoniae and may be an important antigen in vaccine design.
A genus of the family CORONAVIRIDAE which causes respiratory or gastrointestinal disease in a variety of vertebrates.
Phenobarbital is an active metabolite of primidone and so must also be monitored in patients on primidone.(Tietz Fundamentals of Clinical Chemistry and Molecular Diagnostics, Seventh Edition; Carl A. Burtis; David E. Bruns)
Recently, polymerase chain reaction (PCR) is used for rapid detection and differentiation of bacterial species such as M. genitalium.
Breathing its vapors at 15% or higher is often fatal.
The F2 gene (coagulation factor II (thrombin)) is located on chromosome 11p11.
Fel d 4 (a lipocalin) is an important cat allergen.
Treatment includes analgesics, local heat, needling with or without aspiration of the calcific deposits, steroid injections, and possibly surgery for relief of pain.
It is the difference between the volume at the end of diastole, at which point the ventricle is done filling and is at its maximum volume (also known as maximum end-diastolic volume), and the end of systole, at which point the ventricle has finished pumping but has not yet started filling (also known as minimum end-systolic volume).
The mechanism of how the neurotoxicity of AI occurs is still unclear.
The serum GA level provides more accurate diagnostic and prognostic information than does the EG level.
In breast cancer specimens, the degree of Ki-67 staining, assessed using MIB-1, a monoclonal antibody, is associated with the degree of proliferation.
Calcitriol increases intestinal absorption of calcium and phosphorus, and in concert with parathyroid hormone increases bone resorption.
Premature coronary artery disease can be defined as having a myocardial infarction (heart attack) before age 55 for men or before age 65 for women.
Megakaryopoiesis is the process by which bone marrow progenitor cells (hematopoietic stem cells, HSC) develop into mature megakaryocytes (MKs).
Its expression and that of p53 are strongly correlated, and the loss of expression of these two proteins is associated with poor survival for prostate cancer patients.
Eicosapentaenoate (EPA) is a long chain omega-3 fatty acid that is present throughout the body including in cell membranes.
Additional splice variants encoding distinct isoforms have been described but their biological validities have not been demonstrated.
KPC (K. pneumoniae carbapenemase) (Class A): A few class A enzymes, most noted the plasmid-mediated KPC enzymes, are effective carbapenemases as well.
It is toxic to humans and animals, causing irritability, salivation and dizziness when recurrently inhaled or exposed in and around the mouth.
Increased prothrombin levels lead to increased thrombin generation and thus more fibrin clots.
The following foods have slightly higher amounts: egg yolks (raw), liver, peanuts, and raspberries.
This protein is a member of the ALD subfamily, which is involved in peroxisomal import of fatty acids and/or
It was first isolated in 1951 from the fungus Neurospora by A. Michael Michelson, William Drell, and Herschel K. Mitchell.
Non oncogenic, low-risk HPV types (e.g., 6, 11) cause genital warts and recurrent respiratory papillomatosis.
Seafoods and organ meats are the richest food sources of selenium.
This gene encodes a ubiquitous form of hexokinase which localizes to the outer membrane of mitochondria.
The protein encoded by this MAP2K2 gene is a dual specificity protein kinase that belongs to the MAP kinase kinase family.
Autosomal dominant nocturnal frontal lobe epilepsy (ADNFLE) is a rare epileptic disorder that causes frequent violent seizures during sleep.
Sheikh JI, Yesavage JA: Geriatric Depression Scale (GDS): Recent evidence and development of a shorter version.
It is the rate-limiting enzyme in the synthesis of catecholamines, hence plays a key role in the physiology of adrenergic neurons.
The proteins mediate signal transduction events that play a role in the regulation of cell development, activation, growth and motility.
For critically ill patients, hypoalbuminaemia may be observed, and the effects of hypoalbuminaemia on the pharmacokinetics of highly bound antiboitics may pose a potential risk for inappropriate antibiotic therapy in these patients.
There is evidence supporting A. oryzae's potential to breaking down biodegradable plastic.
Saturated fatty acids in the diet are less likely to be absorbed compared to unsaturated fatty acids, and can combine with other compounds, such as calcium, to form fatty acid salts, also known as soaps.
The genus includes the common ("button") mushroom (Agaricus bisporus) and the field mushroom (Agaricus campestris), the dominant cultivated mushrooms of the West.
Its excretion in urine follows proteolytic cleavage of the ectodomain of its glycosyl phosphatidylinosital-anchored counterpart that is situated on the luminal cell surface of the loop of Henle.
The product of the enzymatic digestion of alpha-limit dextrin by isomaltase is maltose.
Tin is a component of many soils and may be released in dusts from wind storms, roads, and farming activities.
Typical doses include 2 mg by mouth or subcutaneous injection every 6 to 8 hours.
Peptides derived from normal human proteins are recognized as such, whereas foreign peptides derived from pathogens trigger an immune response.
There is no definitive evidence that infection of swine other than during gestation is of any clinical or economic significance.
Some individuals begin to experience signs and symptoms during adulthood, while others remain asymptomatic.
The origins of the Mulberry tree (M. alba) are mainly in China, Japan, Thailand and Malaysia.
These pathogens are found on the mucous membranes of humans, animals and birds.
Cerumen (earwax) is a brown, yellowish waxy substance secreted by the ceruminous and sebaceous glands of the outside ear canal.
Its distribution is worldwide, but it is more prevalent in areas of poor sanitation.
3-Hydroxystearoylcarnitine is a primary marker for Long-chain L-3-Hydroxy dehydrogenase deficiency, and Trifunctional protein deficiency.
Casein is a major allergen in milk and the main protein constituent in cheese.
The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the TNF-receptor superfamily.
Cocaine is an alkaloid of Erythroxylon coca that is grown in the northern South American Andes, India, Africa and Java.
Recombinant non-glycosylated protein produced in an E. coli strain strain carrying a cloned cDNA encoding Olea europaea allergen Ole e 1
Production of amprenavir was discontinued by the manufacturer December 31, 2004; a prodrug version (fosamprenavir) is available.
Regulatory T-cells (Tregs) are a subset of CD4+ T-cells that provide protection from excess inflammation and tissue damage that would result from untethered immune responses directed against self, dietary, or environmental antigens.
A serine endopeptidase secreted by the pancreas as its zymogen, CHYMOTRYPSINOGEN and carried in the pancreatic juice to the duodenum where it is activated by TRYPSIN.
It is present on normal mesothelial cells and overexpressed in several human tumors, including mesothelioma and ovarian and pancreatic adenocarcinoma.
It is a semi-synthetic analogue of the naturally occurring penicillin.
Although similar in structure, antibacterial spectrum, and in mechanism of action to macrolides they are also effective against other species as well i.e. actinomycetes, mycoplasma, and some species of Plasmodium.
Individuals homozygous for the UGT1A1*28 allele develop Gilbert syndrome, a condition characterized by periods of mild unconjugated hyperbilirubinemia.
Antibodies to this antigen is found in Jka-b- individuals, and may be a cause of mild hemolytic disease of the newborn.
The diameter of these cells may be quite variable, from about 10 µm (for oval cells) up to more than 30 µm (for club-like cells).
The protein encoded by this gene has structural and functional similarities to complement component 9 (C9).
It has a high rate of efficacy in many types of infection and to date no severe side effects have been noted.
Therefore, urinary 5,6-dihydrouridine can be used as a marker to assess the whole body degradation rate of tRNA.
As with other profilins, Mal d 4 is highly thermolabile and rapidly enzyme degradable, accounting for its inability to elicit systemic reaction and its loss of allergenicity in cooked foods.
Teeth (singular, tooth) are structures found in the jaws of many vertebrates.
Kynurenine and its further breakdown products, including 3-hydroxykynurenine and anthranilic acid, carry out diverse biological functions, such as dilating blood vessels during inflammation and regulating the immune response.
Microsomal epoxide hydrolase 1 (EPHX1) is a microsomal enzyme that acts as a detoxifying enzyme, converting epoxides to trans-dihydrodiols.
The α and β chains are involved in binding IL-2, while signal transduction following cytokine interaction is carried out by the γ-chain, along with the β subunit.
BAFF-R is the BAFF cell surface receptor and is present on the majority of B cells and a subset of T cells in the circulation.
Sweet gum has been introduced into California as well as southwestern British Columbia.
An excess of visceral fat is known as central obesity, or "belly fat", and is linked to type 2 diabetes, insulin resistance, inflammatory diseases, and other obesity-related diseases.
Of the six known genogroups of NV, only three are known to infect humans and include GI, GII, and GIV.
It acts on the central nervous system (CNS) to relieve pain.
In 2002 it was approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration for cosmetological uses.
It has been found on endothelial cells, activated macrophages, fibroblasts, and smooth muscle cells.
PCV1 is nonpathogenic in adult pigs, while PCV2 is a major pathogen..
The BMPR1A gene (bone morphogenetic protein receptor, type IA) is located on chromosome 10q22.3.
Other symptoms may include rhinoconjunctivitis, asthma, laryngeal oedema, abdominal effects, pruritis and hand dermatitis.
Other xenobiotic substrates for this enzyme include caffeine, aflatoxin B1, and acetaminophen.
Dentists sometimes use eugenol as a local anesthetic for teeth and gums.
Indirect immunofluorescence has been shown to be slightly superior compared to ELISA in detection of ANA from HEp-2 cells.
It is currently an ingredient in lotions, creams, and shampoos to eradicate lice and mites in humans.
Because some portion of gene segments that are counted in the total will not correspond to any of the probes and therefore will not be identified as belonging to a specific TRBV gene family, the total of the diversity ratios reported will not equal 100%.
Myxomatosis (from the Greek (mucus), and (to bleed)) is a disease which infects only rabbits.
It has naturally figured very prominently in clinical research, but all three allergen sources are important for an understanding of Dog allergy.
It is the simplest aromatic aldehyde and one of the most industrially useful.
A score of 0 or less indicates a lack of inflammation or contamination with saliva.
Threitol is a four-carbon sugar alcohol with the molecular formula C4H10O4.
Warfarin is a synthetic derivative of coumarin, a chemical found naturally in many plants, notably woodruff (Galium odoratum, Rubiaceae), and at lower levels in licorice, lavender and various other species.
Patients with mutations in this gene have altered levels of sphingolipid and phospholipids in the brain.
This gene encodes a membrane protein thought to play a role in bone mineralization.
Seven LDL subclasses (1-7) and 3 mid-band fractions can be determined by linear polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis and densitometric scanning.
Interleukin 8 is stimulated by Interleukin 1 and Tumor Necrosis Factor.
A notable correlation with piglets with enteritis and the presence of cpb2 has been observed.
Oat straw is used in corn dolly making, and it is the favorite filling for home made lace pillows.
The respiratory syncytial virus (RSV) is a member of the Paramyxoviridae family and is an enveloped pleomorphic virus.
A MOLYBDENUM requiring enzyme that catalyzes the terminal reaction in the oxidative degradation of SULFUR AMINO ACIDS with the formation of a sulfate.
Ticks of the genera Boophilus, Rhipicephalus, and IXODES are the chief vectors.
This gene encodes a major structural protein of peripheral myelin.
This gene encodes the pulmonary-associated surfactant protein B (SPB), an amphipathic surfactant protein essential for lung function and homeostasis after birth.
It is derived from a compound called thienamycin, which is produced by the bacteria Streptomyces cattleya.
In addition, there is some evidence that specific antibody patterns are associated with specific symptoms.
It is thought of as an opportunistic pathogen, and there is possible implication in neonatal BPD (bronchopulmonary dysplasia).
Infection by TOSV is most prevalent in Italy and Spain in the summer months, though the geographical region where TOSV is expanding includes other countries in the Mediterranean basin.
The hyaluronidases and phosphatases also have a high degree of similarity in honeybees and bumblebees.
Flurazepam is therefore unsuitable as a sleeping medication for some individuals due to next-day sedation.
Formed in vivo by the degradation of dihydrouracil and carnosine.
Ionophore antibiotics have the potential to cause toxicosis either by excessive dose levels or when administered with other potentiating agents.
Vitamin D is a fat-soluble vitamin that is naturally present in very few foods, added to others, and available as a dietary supplement.
The encoded protein undergoes an autocatalytic processing event with its prosegment in the ER and is constitutively secreted as an inactive protease into the extracellular matrix and trans-Golgi network.
This serves as a marker for average blood glucose levels over the previous months prior to the measurement.
One such phytosterol complex, isolated from vegetable oil, is cholestatin, composed of campesterol, stigmasterol, and brassicasterol, and is marketed as a dietary supplement.
Luteinizing hormone (LH) is a hormone synthesized and secreted by gonadotropes in the anterior lobe of the pituitary gland.
Naltrexone is an opioid antagonist used primarily in the management of alcohol dependence and opioid dependence.
It is a soil fumigant formerly used in American agriculture.
This receptor is also a transcription regulator of the alpha-synuclein gene, and together, both genes are believed to be associated with risk of Parkinson's Disease.
Diffusing capacity (DLCO) is the carbon monoxide uptake from a single inspiration in a standard time (usually 10 sec).
The cannabinoids, principally delta-9-tetrahydrocannabinol and synthetic analogs, are psychoactive ingredients of marijuana.
Water is thus essential and central to these metabolic processes.
GAA mutations are associated with glycogen storage disease II, which in its infantile form is known as Pompe disease, an autosomal recessive disorder associated with hypotonia and cardiomyopathy.
- insoluble cellular fibronectin is a major component of the extracellular matrix.
The seeds of older Green bean pods are known as Red kidney beans, especially when they are dark red.
The flowers are 1€"2 cm across, yellow, with five pointed lobes on the corolla, borne in a cyme.
The expression of HNA-2a is greater in women than men.
Since exercise normally causes an increase in GH, vigorous exercise may also be used as the stimulant for GH release.
Closely related is interferon beta-1a, also indicated for MS, and with a very similar drug profile.
Actinobacillus pleuropneumoniae is species of gram-negative, facultatively anaerobic coccobacillus-shaped bacteria that has been isolated from pneumonic lesions and blood in pigs.
Calcium oxalate (Ca2) crystals are the most frequently observed crystals in urine, and 75% of renal calculi have calcium oxalate as a component.
Nitisinone (brand name Orfadin) is a hydroxyphenyl-pyruvate dioxygenase inhibitor indicated as an adjunct to dietary restriction of tyrosine and phenylalanine in the treatment of hereditary tyrosinemia type 1 (HT-1).
ABC genes are divided into seven distinct subfamilies (ABC1, MDR/TAP, MRP, ALD, OABP, GCN20, White).
Chlamydia trachomatis L1 is the microorganism that causes lymphogranuloma venereum (LGV).
Leucine toxicity, as seen in decompensated Maple Syrup Urine Disease (MSUD), causes delirium and neurologic compromise, and can be life-threatening.
Exposures to pentachlorophenol measured in minute quantities has been shown to affect the endocrine system of vertebrate life forms and may lead to immune system disfunction, and disruption of normal sexual, cognitive, physical and emotional development.
Elevated levels of guanidinoacetate in the brain are one cause of seizures in patients with GAMT deficiency.
This colorless, sweet-smelling liquid was produced industrially in large quantities for use as a solvent.
Malonate is an inhibitor of cellular respiration, because it binds to the active site of the succinate dehydrogenase in the citric acid cycle but does not react, thereby competing with succinate.
Ocular infections occur most commonly in newborns who are exposed in the birth canal and can lead to corneal scarring or perforation.
A species of CAPRIPOXVIRUS causing a cattle disease occurring in Africa.
The huntingtin locus is large, spanning 180 kb and consisting of 67 exons.
Ethyl acetate is the ester of ethanol and acetic acid; it is manufactured on a large scale for use as a solvent.
MMA and PA can be distinguished based on methylmalonic acid concentration, which is elevated in MMA and normal in PA.
Dodecenoylcarnitine is a primary marker for Very long-chain acyl-CoA dehydrogenase deficiency.
C. botulinum was first recognized and isolated in 1896 by Emile van Ermengem and is commonly found in soil.
CYBB deficiency is one of five described biochemical defects associated with chronic granulomatous disease (CGD).
A mutation in the SGSH gene is associated with mucopolysaccharidosis type IIIA (MPSIIIA), also known as Sanfilippo syndrome A. MPSIIIA is characterized by severe central nervous system degeneration, and clinical symptoms usually become apparent between ages 2 and 6, with progressive neurologic degeneration between 6 and 10 years of age and death by age 30.
Polymorphism within this gene is associated with variable ability to metabolize mephenytoin, known as the poor metabolizer and extensive metabolizer phenotypes.
This protein is an important cell cycle checkpoint kinase that phosphorylates; thus, it functions as a regulator of a wide variety of downstream proteins, including tumor suppressor proteins p53 and BRCA1, checkpoint kinase CHK2, checkpoint proteins RAD17 and RAD9, and DNA repair protein NBS1.
The protein contains three residues of the amino acid gamma-carboxyglutamic acid (Gla), which, in the presence of CALCIUM, promotes binding to HYDROXYAPATITE and subsequent accumulation in BONE MATRIX.
Mutations in this gene are associated with myelodysplastic syndromes and chronic myelomonocytic leukemia.
TSST-1 is associated with approximately 65% of TSS cases- (most of the menstruation associated cases), whereas SEB is associated with approximately 20% of cases.
Individuals infected with EBV are often asymptomatic but EBV commonly causes infectious mononucleosis.
Its pathogenicity role is controversial since it is found in the stools of healthy people as well as in the stools of those who have diarrhea, abdominal pain or other gastrointestinal problems.
Nitroxoline is a urinary antibacterial agent active against susceptible gram-positive and gram-negative organisms commonly found in urinary tract infections.
Typically about 50% of the excreted cholesterol is reabsorbed by the small bowel back into the bloodstream.
Suberic acid is a dicarboxylic acid and is a fatty acid metabolite.
In addition, transcripts utilize multiple polyA sites and contain two potential translation initiation sites.
The protein belongs to the S19E family of ribosomal proteins.
Basophils and mast cells are derived from separate progenitor cells.
The GJB6 gene (gap junction protein, beta 6, 30kDa) is located on chromosome 13q12.
Insulin: if insulin at school or not, type of insulin, insulin doses: school, lunchtime, meal bolus: units/grams carbo, correction: units per md/dl over mg/dl (correction scale), if parents provide written, 7.
The ACT can be affected by platelet count, platelet function, temperature of the blood, and acquired or inherited hematologic conditions.
An aldohexose that occurs naturally in the D-form in lactose, cerebrosides, gangliosides, and mucoproteins.
Sucrase is the name given to a number of enzymes that catalyse the hydrolysis of sucrose to fructose and glucose.
A repeat length polymorphism in the promoter of this gene has been shown to affect the rate of serotonin uptake and may play a role in sudden infant death syndrome, aggressive behavior in Alzheimer disease patients, and depression-susceptibility in people experiencing emotional trauma.
N-Acetylaspartic acid, or N-acetylaspartate (NAA), is a derivative of aspartic acid with a formula of C6H9NO5 and a molecular weight of 175.139.
Further cross-reactivity among the various Ragweeds can be inferred due to the high cross-reactivity among various other members of the genus Ambrosia and of the family Asteraceae.
Flow cytometry was also recently applied to analyze proliferation of cultured cells in response to stimulation with mitogen.
AME is a heritable form of hypertension due to an inborn error of cortisol metabolism and is characterized by hypokalemia and low renin levels despite subnormal or normal levels of aldosterone and other known mineralocorticoids.
In apoptosis, phosphatidylserine is transferred to the outer leaflet of the plasma membrane.
Mutations in this gene are associated with familial hypertrophic cardiomyopathy, myosin storage myopathy, dilated cardiomyopathy, and Laing early-onset distal myopathy.
It is highly adaptable, resulting in drug resistant strains: methicillin-resistant S. aureus (MRSA), methicillin-susceptbile S. aureus (MSSA), vancomycin-intermediate S. aureus (VISA) and vancomycin-resistant S. aureus (VRSA).
BCL-2 immunopositivity has been linked to the emergence of androgen independence in metastatic prostate cancer.
Phenylglyoxalic acid is the organic compound with the formula C6H5C(O)CO2H.
A, found mainly in Italy, and B, occurring mainly in Spain.
It is now often found planted in courtyards, rows or groves in tropical climates all over the world.
Bcl-2 (B-cell lymphoma 2) is the founding member of the Bcl-2 family of apoptosis regulator proteins encoded by the BCL2 gene.
The substance is an exudate obtained from the Astragalus species of shrub, an evergreen, which is found in Iran, Asia Minor and Syria.
During coughing, viscous mucus is ejected into the lumen of the large bronchi, twisting in a spiral.
It is colorless, although upon exposure to light, samples develop a purplish tinge caused by the presence of I2.
Methicillin resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA) is a staph infection that is resistant to multiple antibiotics.
Immunoblot tests of patients sensitive to latex have been shown to react to Hev b 10.
This gene is located within the Smith-Magenis syndrome region on chromosome 17.
The virus is highly contagious and is transmitted by the fecal-oral route, by contact with infected people, and by contact with contaminated surfaces or substances.
HIV-2 is poorly transmitted and is primarily concentrated in West Africa.
Principal piece defects include short, multiple, broken, smooth hairpin bends, sharply angulated bends, irregular width, or coiled.
Opiates are narcotic drugs sometimes used to control pain, but have high abuse potential.
Leukocytes or white blood cells (WBCs) are immune cells that fight infection, neoplasms and other inflammatory conditions, and mediate allergic responses.
Time to onset of adverse event(s) since treatment start in years, months, weeks, days, or hours.
The KCNQ2 gene (potassium channel, voltage gated KQT-like subfamily Q, member 2) is located on chromosome 20q13.3.
Coronary artery stenosis is usually graded based on the classification developed by an American College of Cardiology/American Heart Association task force.
Omega-3 polyunsaturated fatty acids are essential nutrients that include eicosapentaenoate (EPA), docosahexaenoate (DHA), and alpha-linolenic acid (ALA).
Cryptosporidium hominis, along with Cryptosporidium parvum, is among the medically important Cryptosporidium species.
It is also the main metabolite of valine, and together with acetyl-CoA, is a metabolite of isoleucine, as well as a methionine metabolite.
They have numerous metabolic properties including being fermentative, oxidative, assimilative, or nonreactive.
Leptospires appear in the urine during this phase and are shed for various periods depending on the host.
Patients who are immunocompromised are more likely to develop more severe disease.
This will require the deployment of generic catch-all tests, such as sensitive and specific in vitro androgen bioassays, coupled with the development of mass spectrometry-based tests for specific doping agents.
Clinical symptoms include severe MENTAL RETARDATION, impaired skeletal development, short stature, and MYXEDEMA.
The encoded protein can function as an elastase over a broad pH range in alveolar macrophages.
PCDW may be a potentially useful marker for the early diagnosis of thromboembolic and hypertensive disorders.
Specific neutral fats include monoacylglycerol (MAG), diacylglycerol (DAG), and triacylglycerol (TAG, also called triglyceride).
Creatinine is usually produced at a fairly constant rate and measuring its serum level is a simple test.
Interleukin 1a shares a receptor with Interleukin 1b although they are significantly different structurally.
Coffee comes from an evergreen, glabrous shrub or small tree, up to 5m tall when unpruned.
The date that a patient withdraws consent from participating in a clinical trial.
Maximum voluntary ventilation (MVV) is a measure of the maximum amount of air that can be inhaled and exhaled within one minute.
Defects in this gene are the cause of glycogen storage disease II, also known as Pompe's disease, which is an autosomal recessive disorder with a broad clinical spectrum.
Mutations or deletions in the GATA2 gene are associated with myelodysplastic syndromes (MDS), acute myeloid leukemia (AML), and inherited bone marrow failure disorders (IBMFS).
Smooth muscle cells in the tunica media of many blood vessels also produce IL-6 as a pro-inflammatory cytokine.
It may play a role in the regulation of phospholipid turnover as well as in protection against oxidative injury.
If bitten by an animal that may have RV infection, rabies immune globulin and rabies vaccine should be administered.
Gladiolus (from Latin, the diminutive of gladius, a sword) is a genus of perennial bulbous flowering plants in the iris family (Iridaceae).
Carnosine (beta -alanyl-L-histidine) is a dipeptide of the amino acids beta -alanine and histidine.
The S65C mutation is a mild mutation accounting for 1-4% of the carriers.
Pru av 4, a member of the profilin family of allergens, is an approximately 15 kD protein associated with oral allergy syndrome (OAS) to cherry.
There is evidence to show that alternative translation initiations from an upstream, in-frame non-AUG (CUG) and a downstream AUG start site result in the production of two isoforms with distinct N-termini.
Indolelactic acid is present in various amounts, significantly higher in umbilical fetal plasma than in maternal plasma in the protein-bound form., ,, , and .
It binds to a specific liver and peripheral cell receptor, and is essential for the normal catabolism of triglyceride-rich lipoprotein constituents.
Anecdotal evidence suggests that T. viride may induce symptoms of asthma and hypersensitivity pneumonitis (HP) in sensitised individuals.
Clinical symptoms included increased urinary oxalate, glycolate, and glycerate excreation, which lead to a wide spectrum of diseases ranging from renal failure in infancy to renal stones in late adulthood.
Lactose intolerance is a related disorder that reflects an individual's inability to hydrolyze the disaccharide lactose.
Acid glucosidase is associated with Glycogen storage disease type II.Lactase one member of the -galactosidase family, breaks down milk sugars, and its absence in adulthood causes lactose intolerance.
Lithium, atomic symbol Li, atomic number 3, and atomic weight 6.94, belongs to the alkali metals family.
In anatomic pathology, pathologists make use of CD56 immunohistochemistry to recognize certain tumors.
This suggests that Y. pestis was, at the very least, a contributing factor in some (though possibly not all of) the European plagues.
A protein hormone secreted by beta cells of the pancreas.
In Europe, L. destructor has been reported to be a major source of mite allergy in rural and urban environments.
It still has some industrial use as a wood preservative for utility poles, railroad ties, and wharf pilings.
Part of porphyrin fractionation testing useful in diagnosing porphyrin cutanea tarda, hereditary coproporphyria, and variegate porphyria.
Salmonella is a rod-shaped, motile bacterium, nonmotile (exceptions S. gallinarum and S. pullorum), nonsporeforming and Gram-negative.
Selection of alternative dosing or agents may be necessary in individuals with certain UGT1A1 genetic variations.
Red blood cells that range from slightly oval to elongated cigar-shaped forms.
Botrytis cinerea is a necrotrophic fungus that affects many plant species, although its most notable hosts may be wine grapes.
(Subtype I) was originally used to describe a strain that is now accounted for as CRF04_cpx, with the cpx for a "complex" recombination of several subtypes.
In homodimeric form, the encoded protein functions as a dehydrogenase and is found in several multi-enzyme complexes that regulate energy metabolism.
Increased serum and urine levels of hydroxyproline have also been demonstrated in Paget's disease.
Seventy seven percent of sera from patients allergic to Chenopod pollen were reactive to Che a 1.
Animal allergens are major components of farm, home and animal laboratory dust.
Acknowledgement: Authorization for administration of medication away from clinic, provider signature and date, parent/guardian authorization: signatures and dates consenting school to give medications.
Salvinorin A is the main active psychotropic molecule in Salvia divinorum, a Mexican plant which has a long history of use as an entheogen by indigenous Mazatec shamans.
Porcine Epidemic Diarrhea Virus (PEDv) is a large-enveloped RNA virus, which is a member of the genus Alphacoronavirus within the Coronaviridae family.
It is a biomarker used in the evaluation of chronic inflammatory diseases, including rheumatoid arthritis (RA) and inflammatory bowel disease (IBD).
This protein may play a role in the development and the function of the eye, hematological system, and central nervous system.
It hydrolyzes amide linkages and serves as an activator of plasminogen.
Probably the world's most widely used salad vegetable, Lettuce is thought to have originated in the Mediterranean region in the form of Prickly Lettuce.
Methylglutarylcarnitine is a primary marker for is a secondary marker for Very long-chain acyl-CoA dehydrogenase deficiency.
5p deletion risk refers to the fetus's risk of having 5p deletion syndrome, also known as Cri-du-chat syndrome.
In popular culture and commerce, banana usually refers to the soft, sweet dessert bananas that are usually eaten raw.
Examples of extraintestinal infection include the findings of the virus in the liver during autopsy, elevated liver enzymes during active infection and the demonstration of the virus replicating both in the liver and kidneys of a child suffering from immunodeficiency.
Mice that do not express an active protein for this gene exhibit embryonic lethality associated with the absence of definitive erythropoiesis.
The breakpoints on chromosome 4 occur within a 113-kb gene cluster region involving the fibroblast growth factor receptor 3 (FGFR3) gene.
HLA-DRB1*1501 and DRB1*1503, subtypes of DR2, are associated with narcolepsy.
Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
The kinase activity of the enzyme is inhibited by the pyridinyl-imidazole compound SB 203580.
Additional transcript variants have been described but their biological validity has not been confirmed.
The protein is found in the basement membrane, and may be important in development and homeostasis of the inner ear and retina.
The extracts of Watermelon and Ragweed inhibited each other in a dose-dependent manner (12).
Lithocholic acid (LCA) is the secondary bile acid (BA) formed from chenodeoxycholic acid (CDCA).
A Barr body is the inactive X chromosome in a female somatic cell, or the inactive Z in a male, rendered inactive in a process called lyonization, in those species (including humans) in which sex is determined by the presence of the Y or W chromosome rather than the diploidy of the X or Z.
Ethyl sulfate (EtS), also known as sulfovinic acid, is an ethanol metabolite and may be a biomarker for recent alcohol use.
This receptor is directly associated with one of its ultimate effectors, the class C L-type calcium channel Ca(V)1.2.
Lipophages are macrophages that contains an abundance of small lipid vacuoles that completely fill the cytoplasm.
In men, it is used as a contraceptive and causes spermatogenesis arrest at relatively low doses.
Cytolethal distending toxin B (CdtB) is a protein that is produced by gram negative bacteria.
Mutations in this gene have been associated with both mucolipidosis II and mucolipidosis IIIA.
It has been shown that human nuclear RNase P is required for the normal and efficient transcription of various small noncoding RNAs, such as tRNA, 5S rRNA, SRP RNA and U6 snRNA genes., which are transcribed by RNA polymerase III, one of three major nuclear RNA polymerases in human cells.
Its properties and uses are generally similar to those of CHLORPROMAZINE.
Hydrogenated fats are used in stick margarine, fast foods, commercial baked goods (donuts, cookies, crackers), processed foods, and fried foods.
It has been found to be constituitively associated with the prolactin receptor and is required for responses to gamma interferon.
The rare phenotype for this system is known as p. Soon after the discovery of this phenotype it was noted that the naturally occurring antibodies in p females were a cause of early abortion.
Enzyme and fluorescent-based assays, which were preceded by the RAST test (Radio-AllergoSorbent Test), are performed to detect allergen-specific IgE in the patient's serum.
This gene is a member of the P-type cation transport ATPase family and encodes a protein with several membrane-spanning domains, an ATPase consensus sequence, a hinge domain, a phosphorylation site, and at least 2 putative copper-binding sites.
This gene encodes a multifunctional protein component of the heterogeneous nuclear ribonucleoprotein (hnRNP) complex.
This panel contains trace elements as measured in hair, examples including boron, chromium and copper.
The presence of endotoxins in the blood is called endotoxemia.
Serum osteocalcin measurements provide a noninvasive specific marker of bone metabolism.
Enoxacin (trade names Enroxil®, Penetrex®) is an oral broad-spectrum quinoline antibacterial agent used in the treatment of urinary tract infections and gonorrhea.
Interleukin 7 plays an important role in maintenance of a population of pre B lymphocytes although it does not stimulate differention of pre B cells to B cells.
Blue Grama (Bouteloua gracilis), is a long-lived, warm season, C4 perennial grass native to North America.
Mutations in this gene are detected in ovarian and breast cancer cell lines, implicating the gene's potential role in the pathogenesis of human cancers.
Buprenorphine and norbuprenorphine displayed distinct pharmacological properties at mu-opioid, delta-opioid, and kappa-opioid receptors and the ORL1 receptor.
But increasing use of immunosuppressive therapy has resulted in increasingly frequent conditions involving infection by A fumigatus.
Anticoagulant rodenticides, such as brodifacoum, bromadiolone, coumafuryl, coumatetralyl, difenacoum, diphacinone, difethialone, and chlorophacinone, are effective pesticides for reducing pest rodent populations and associated damage.
The exact function of the protein encoded by this gene is not known, however, its C-terminal region shows similarity to TonB, a bacterial protein involved in energy transduction for cobalamin (vitamin B12) uptake.
A section to capture the company name and the most recent version number, for standardizing risk evaluation and mitigation strategies (REMS) information for inclusion into pharmacy systems.
Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been described for this gene.
Torezolid (also known as TR-701 and now tedizolid) is an oxazolidinone drug being developed by Trius Therapeutics for complicated skin and skin-structure infections (cSSSI), including those caused by Methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA).
Potassium ion is a strong electrolyte and it plays a significant role in the regulation of fluid volume and maintenance of the water-electrolyte balance.
The type IV collagen C4 domain at the C-terminus is not removed in post-translational processing, and the fibers link head-to-head, rather than in parallel.
The fungus is the only pathogen of the two species comprising genus Epidermophyton.
Burkholderia pseudomallei (previously Pseudomonas pseudomallei, Malleomyces pseudomallei, Pfeiferella pseudomallei, Bacillus whitmori) aka Whitmore's bacillus is a Gram-negative, bipolar, aerobic, motile rod-shaped bacterium.
Decreases in DHA in the brain are associated with cognitive decline during aging and with onset of sporadic Alzheimer disease.
Achiote (Bixa orellana) is a shrub or small tree from the tropical region of the Americas.
The proteins mediate signal transduction events that play a role in the regulation of cell development, activation, growth and motility.
Foods rich in potassium include parsley, dried apricots, potatoes, bananas, avocados, soybeans, and bran, as well as most fruits, vegetables, meat and fish.
The substance is a gummy exudate derived from trees of the species Acacia senegal and its close relatives.
Race bridging refers to making data collected using one set of race categories consistent with data collected using a different set of race categories, to permit estimation and comparison of race-specific statistics at a point in time or over time.
<10 score = 0; 10-25 score = +1; >25 score = +2; Mucus present score = +1 Epithelial cells/LPF: 10-25 score = -1; >25 score = -2
CRP is a sensitive and quantitative measurement of the body's acute-phase response.
This gene encodes the mitochondrial seryl-tRNA synthethase precursor, a member of the class II tRNA synthetase family.
Thallium is the chemical element in the periodic table that has the symbol Tl and atomic number 81.
Elevated levels of DRD1 antibody have been linked to an immune response to a group A streptococcus infection, which has been implicated in tic disorder and neuropsychiatric abnormalities, although this is controversial.
There is some evidence that suggests bictegravir could be effective on strains of HIV that have become resistant to other HIV drugs.
For autologous transplants, the patient donates his or her own cells.
It is used to treat infections caused by susceptible Gram-positive bacteria.
It is also effective as an antiemetic, for relief of anxiety and tension, and as a sedative.
Interferon alfa (INN, or HuIFN-alpha-Le, trade name Multiferon) is a natural interferon alpha (IFN-α) which is obtained from the leukocyte fraction of human blood following induction with Sendai virus.
The activated form of Factor V (Factor Va) is more slowly degraded by activated protein C. Factor V Leiden mutation (R506Q) is the most common cause of APC resistance.
DDT is very slow to decompose in the soil and its estimated half-life is 2-15 years.
Examples of common fluoride compounds include hydrofluoric acid (H F), and sodium fluoride (Na F).
A colorless liquid used as a solvent and an antiseptic.
A non-steroidal anti-inflammatory agent (NSAID) with antipyretic and analgesic actions.
Cefpodoxime is effective against both Gram-positive and Gram-negative bacteria and is used to treat acute tuberculosis, otitis media, pharyngitis, and sinusitis.
A vaccine is available although its efficacy remains uncertain, and cats will test positive for FIV antibodies after vaccination.
It is named as one of the AM series of cannabinoids discovered by Alexandros Makriyannis at Northeastern University.
Cefazolin is mainly used to treat bacterial infections of the skin.
Uracil serves as allosteric regulator and coenzyme for reactions in the human body and in plants.
Pseudogenes of this gene are located on chromosomes 9, 2, and 16.
Cyclic amide of caproic acid used in manufacture of synthetic fibers of the polyamide type.
CD58, or lymphocyte function-associated antigen 3 (LFA-3), is a cell adhesion molecule.
It does bioaccumulate in bacteria and in marine and freshwater fish.
A lack of pancreatic polypeptide in the ISLETS OF LANGERHANS has been associated with the OBESITY in rats and mice.
Cutibacterium acnes (formerly known as Propionibacterium acnes), a slow-growing Gram-positive biofilm-forming rod implicated in acne vulgaris, is part of the normal flora of human skin, conjunctiva, oral cavity and large intestines.
Lycopodium is a genus of clubmosses, also known as ground pines, in the family Lycopodiaceae
A naphthacene antibiotic that inhibits amino acyl tRNA binding during protein synthesis.
Several variants in the LPA gene have been associated with increased levels of Lp(a) as well as increased risk of cardiovascular disease.
The organism can also be transmitted to a fetus by transplacental passage during the later stages of pregnancy, giving rise to congenital syphilis.
A deficiency in the catalytic activity of HPD is known to lead to tyrosinemia type III, an autosomal recessive disorder characterized by elevated levels of blood tyrosine and massive excretion of tyrosine derivatives into urine.
Nitrazepam (marketed under the trade names Alodorm®, Mogadon®, Nitredon ®, Nilandron®) is a powerful hypnotic drug, which is a benzodiazepine derivative.
Aspartame is an artificial non-saccharide sweetener 200 times sweeter than sucrose, and is commonly used as a sugar substitute in foods and beverages.
The most important member is VEGF-A. Other members are Placenta growth factor (PGF), VEGF-B, VEGF-C and VEGF-D.
This test is performed in order to evaluate kidney function and the body's electrolyte/water balance.
Patients with exon 9 mutations have a longer progression free survival and overall survival compared to patients with KIT exon 11 mutations.
A new drug application for iclaprim was filed with the U.S. Food and Drug Administration in March 2008, and a marketing authorisation application (MAA) was accepted by the European Medicines Agency on August 21, 2008.
Mutations in this gene give rise to XY females with gonadal dysgenesis (Swyer syndrome); translocation of part of the Y chromosome containing this gene to the X chromosome causes XX male syndrome.
Osteoblasts produce osteoid, which is composed mainly of Type I collagen.
The EGFR-ligand complex then can bind to an adjacent receptor protein which then activates the EGFR-ligand complex and signals intercellular processes to promote cell growth, proliferation and survival.
The metabolite, alpha-hydroxyalprazolam, is also pharmacologically active but much less so than the parent compound.
Chronic hepatitis B may cause liver cirrhosis which may then lead to liver cancer.
(for human medicine) Veterinary Medicine: In veterinary medicine, the impact of aluminum toxicity is similar.
The its genes are conserved across candida species, but specific internal sequences have enough variation to be able to distinguish amongst species.
Other manifestations are temporary or permanent sterility, lameness, posterior paralysis, spondylitis, and abscess formation.
Aminohippuric acid or para-aminohippuric acid (PAH), a derivative of hippuric acid, is a diagnostic agent useful in medical tests involving the kidney used in the measurement of renal plasma flow.
This protein is the testis-determining factor (TDF), which initiates male sex determination.
An oxidoreductase that catalyzes the conversion of hydrogen peroxide to water and oxygen.
In Fabry disease, there is known accelerated hypertrophy of the walls of the radial artery and a thickening of the intima media of the common carotid artery as a result of smooth muscle cell proliferation.
Myoglobin is rapidly cleared and thus has a substantially reduced clinical sensitivity after 12 hr.
Because G. stearothermophilus are thermophillic, they are highly resistant to heat and therefore used in equipment validation studies to prove that sterilization took place.
Invega Sustenna (paliperidone palmitate) is a long-acting injectable formulation of paliperidone indicated for once-monthly injection after an initial titration period.
Douglas fir attains a height of 30 to 90 m.
5' Nucleotidase testing provides supportive evidence in the diagnosis of liver disease.
Asp f 1 is a major allergen and is produced by the mycelia of A. fumigatus.
This gene encodes a type I cell-surface receptor for the TGF-beta superfamily of ligands.
ANNA-2 is present in patients with midbrain encephalitis, cerebellar ataxia, eye movement disorders (usually opsoclonus), and occasionally myelopathy.
Any joint can be involved; the shoulder is most commonly affected, resulting in "Milwaukee shoulder.
Symptoms of severe illness are seen most often in patients who are immunosuppressed due to infections like Human immunodeficiency virus and conditions such as cancer.
It also has direct spasmolytic effects on bladder smooth muscle as a calcium antagonist and local anesthetic, but at concentrations far above those used clinically.
In humans, the tyrosine aminotransferase protein is encoded by the TAT gene.
Alternatively, Co^b is present in 8 to 10 % of Northern Europeans with much lower incidence in other populations.
The CSF3R (colony stimulating factor 3 receptor) gene is located on chromosome 1 at 1p34.3.
Recombinant non-glycosylated protein produced in an E. coli strain carrying a cloned cDNA encoding Canis familiaris allergen Can f 2.
The encoded protein interacts with adrenocorticotropic and MSH hormones and is mediated by G proteins.
Malonylcarnitine is a metabolite that accumulates with specific disruption of fatty-acid oxidation caused by impaired entry of long-chain acylcarnitine esters into the mitochondria and failure of the mitochondrial respiratory chain at complex 11 and malonyl-CoA decarboxylase deficiency.
An increase of approximately 12 ppm or more in hydrogen and/or methane during the breath test could conclude bacterial overgrowth.
Alphaviruses particles are enveloped have a 70 nm diameter, tend to be spherical (although slightly pleomorphic), and have a 40 nm isometric nucleocapsid.
Tahyna virus is a mosquito-borne virus that has been known to be present in both Europe and Asia.
The genera that comprise the LAB are at its core Lactobacillus, Leuconostoc, Pediococcus, Lactococcus, and Streptococcus, as well as the more peripheral Aerococcus, Carnobacterium, Enterococcus, Oenococcus, Sporolactobacillus, Tetragenococcus, Vagococcus, and Weissella.
The three mechanisms that alter bilirubin metabolism and can increase or decrease urobilinogen concentration are the following: 1) pre-hepatic overproduction of heme due to diseases such as sickle cell anemia, hemolytic anemia, transfusion reactions, thalassemia, and pernicious anemia, which leads to an increased production of bilirubin and later, urobilinogen; 2) hepatocellular disorders in which the hepatocytes' ability to take up bilirubin, conjugated to glucuronic acid and excreted into the bile duct is impaired which causes a decreased urobilinogen concentration; and 3) post-hepatic obstruction of the bile duct and the biliary system so that conjugated bilirubin is unable to enter the intestines and no urobilinogen is produced.(Fundamental of Urine & Body Fluid Analysis, Third,Nancy A. Brunzel, MS, MLS(ASCP)CM,Elsevier, St Louis, MO ©2013)
The calcium salt of oxalic acid, occurring in the urine as crystals and in certain calculi.
The N gene is also used for the genetic characterization of MeV. Genetic classification is an important part of laboratory surveillance for measles and to provide support for molecular epidemiologic studies.
Perinatal (around the time of birth) infection can lead to pneumonia and death.
Butter, cheese, milk and meat also contain this fatty acid.
Mutations in this gene are associated with carnitine-acylcarnitine translocase deficiency, which can cause a variety of pathological conditions such as hypoglycemia, cardiac arrest, hepatomegaly, hepatic dysfunction and muscle weakness, and is usually lethal in new born and infants.
Examples of indoleamines are the tryptamines, such as 5-hydroxytryptamine (serotonin, 5-HT) and the lysergamides.
Reduced or absent levels of HEXA and accumulation of GM2 gangliosides in the neuronal cells is characteristic of GM2-gangliosidosis 1 (GM2G1), and autosomal recessive lysosomal storage disease that leads to neurodegeneration and, in the infantile form, death in early childhood.
It reflects the quantity and biological activity of fibrinogen but is not a direct measurement of fibrin concentration.
The mutation has been found in a subset of patient's with gastrointestinal stromal tumors (GISTs).
The distance from Labrale Superius back to the maxillary central incisor (supradentale)
This gene encodes a dual-specificity phosphatase that associates with polyribosomes.
Zinc deficiency is associated with anemia, short stature, hypogonadism, impaired wound healing and geophagia.
Cholesterol is a lipidic, waxy alcohol found in the cell membranes and transported in the blood plasma of all animals.
Measurements of acylcarnitines have been used to assist in the diagnosis of multiple disorders of amino acid, fatty acid, and organic acid metabolism, especially those involving fatty acid beta-oxidation.
It has been identified as the major causative agent in tumors that were previously thought to cause hypercalcemia through skeletal metastatic involvement.
Chlorpromazine has several other actions and therapeutic uses, including as an antiemetic and in the treatment of intractable hiccup.
It is a mild stimulant with a good safety profile and relatively low incidence of cardiovascular problems or other side effects such as anorexia and insomnia, although these side effects may still occur at higher doses.
Lysozyme is a hydrolytic enzyme and bacteriolytic glycosidase found in all three human neutrophil cytoplasmic granules and is elevated in some cases of myelogenous, and most cases of myelomonocytic and monocytic leukemia.
Characteristics of Type A lesions include length <10 mm, a concentric pattern, little or no calcification, absence of thrombus, and no major branch involvement.
Adenosine-5'-triphosphate (ATP) is a multifunctional nucleotide used in cells as a coenzyme.
It is a protein that adsorbs to the surface of biomaterials that come in contact with blood in vivo.
M. abscessus infections are often difficult to treat as many strains are resistant to most of the common antibiotics.
Groups D, E, F, and G are found only in animals.
1,2-Dichloroethane is also used generally as an intermediate for other organic chemical compounds, and as a solvent.
Picea pungens (Colorado Blue Spruce or Blue Spruce) is a species of spruce native to western North America, from southeast Idaho and southwest Wyoming, south through Utah and Colorado to Arizona and New Mexico.
Fluorquinolones are among most beneficial drugs used to treat multi-drug resistant Mycobacterium tuberculosis (MDR-TB) infections.
Peroxidase negative cells too large to be classified as lymphocytes or basophils.
The expression of bba64 is tightly regulated by environmental characteristics that are useful to the bacteria as it moves between hosts.
For commercial exploitation, Mandarins have several disadvantages, including that, unlike the Orange, the fruit does not ship well.
The ACTH stimulation test (also called the cosyntropin test, tetracosactide test or Synacthen test) is a medical test usually ordered and interpreted by endocrinologists to assess the functioning of the adrenal glands stress response by measuring the adrenal response to adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH).
Severe exposure to methomyl can result in twitching, giddiness, confusion, loss of muscle coordination, slurred speech, low blood pressure, heart irregularities, and loss of reflexes.
They suggested the fusion may occur due to an interstitial deletion or a t(8;8)(q13;q21) chromosomal translocation since both genes are located on the long arm of chromosome 8.
Orotidine is a nucleoside formed by attaching orotic acid to a ribose ring via a β-N1-glycosidic bond.
Ecgonine methyl ester (EME) is a major metabolite of cocaine, a wide spread illicit drug of abuse.
Methcathinone is an illicit drug also known as ephedrone, which is a methyl derivative of cathinone, a stimulant found in the khat plant, Catha edulis.
It has been used to treat insomnia, but has been largely superseded and is only offered where an intolerance or allergy to other drugs exists.
Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different protein isoforms have been found for this gene.
Detection of one or more extra copies of 1q21 has been associated with poor prognosis in patients with newly diagnosed myeloma.
Three types of bacteria are used in the production of Emmental cheese: Streptococcus salivarius subsp.
Charcoal is usually produced by slow pyrolysis, the heating of wood, sugar, bone char, or other substances in the absence of oxygen (see pyrolysis, char and biochar).
The plasma halflife of naltrexone is about 4 h, for 6-beta-naltrexol 13 h.
This gene encodes a member of the membrane-spanning 4A gene family.
The word palmitic is from the French "palmitique", the pith of the palm tree.
IgE-mediated allergy, resulting in hayfever and asthma, to pollen of the European chestnut represents an important cause of pollinosis in Mediterranean and sub-Mediterranean areas
The virus interferes with the endothelial cells lining the interior surface of blood vessels and with coagulation.
Anti-Jk^a can cause severe and fatal hemolytic transfusion reactions but is more commonly associated with less severe Delayed Hemolytic Transfusion Reactions (DHTRs).
Fatty acids containing 16, 18 and 20 carbons are the most common. LysoPC(18:0), in particular, consists of one chain of stearic acid at the C-1 position.
Its origin is not clear but it may have come about as a hybrid of the pomelo tree and sweet orange.
It is a monoclonal antibody targeted at the CD3 receptor, a membrane protein on the surface of T cells.
An increase in lymphocyte concentration is usually a sign of a viral infection (in some rare case, leukemias are found through an abnormally raised lymphocyte count in an otherwise normal person).
The inhibition or degradation of this kinase is also found to be involved in the pathogenesis of Yersinia and anthrax.
Unlike the predominant isotope uranium-238 it is fissile, i.e. it can sustain fission chain reaction.
Beta glucans are cell wall constituents (polysacharrides) of medically important fungi including Candida and Aspergillus, and are used to assist in making the diagnosis of disseminated fungal infection.
Testolactone, or Teslac (brand name) is an antineoplastic agent that is a derivative of progesterone and is used to treat advanced stage breast cancer.
C29-dicarboxylic acid is a bile acid intermediate that accumulates in plasma from patients with a peroxisome deficiency disorder (i.e., Zellweger syndrome, neonatal adrenoleukodystrophy, and infantile Refsum disease).
Several alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been described; however, not all variants give rise to a functional enzyme.
It is an alkene and it contains a reactive four-membered ring.
Prostaglandin E1 is derived mainly from Prostaglandin H1, and is metabolized to Prostaglandin F1a.
Anti-histone antibodies are associated with various autoimmune diseases, including systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE), rheumatoid arthritis, Sjogren's syndrome, systemic sclerosis, infectious diseases (including HIV), and some neurological disorders such as Alzheimer's disease and dementia.
The mutation substitutes a guanine with an adenine at nucleotide 20210.
Images included with each term display the charts and indicate in color (red, green, yellow) the usual score "cutoffs" in clinical settings.
Dihydrorhodamine oxidation to rhodamine by the respiratory burst of the cell is measured by flow cytometry.
In addition to decreasing the level of glucose in the blood, insulin also increases the permeability of cells to amino and fatty acids, and accelerates glycolysis and glycogen synthesis in the liver.
Gluten gives elasticity to dough, helping it rise and to keep its shape, and often gives the final product a chewy texture.
IFNs have other functions: they activate immune cells, such as natural killer cells and macrophages; they increase recognition of infection or tumor cells by up-regulating antigen presentation to T lymphocytes; and they increase the ability of uninfected host cells to resist new infection by virus.
Many OXA enzymes (OXA-23-like, OXA-24-like, OXA-48-like, OXA-58-like) are considered to be responsible for the worldwide resistance epidemics.
It is biosynthesized from methionine by the removal of its terminal Cε methyl group.
BCR1 and BCR3 are most frequently involved in acute promyelocytic leukemia (APL), and BCR2 leads to several different products due to different breakpoints within this cluster.
Human erythroviruses have three genotypes: genotype 1 (B19 strains), genotype 2 (A6 strains) and genotype 3 (V9/D91.1 strains)
The ALDH3A2 gene (aldehyde dehydrogenase 3 family member A2) is located on chromosome 17p11.2.
They demonstrated that arrayCGH analysis is robust, highly sensitive and specific and might be useful in routine screening of CLL.
Other Kell antigens include Ku, Ula, Wka, Kx, Km, and Kp^c.
Glutamate decarboxylase 65 (GAD65) antibody is useful to diagnose insulin dependent diabetes mellitus (IDDM, Type I diabetes), to assess the risk for developing IDDM, to predict the onset of IDDM and the risk of developing related endocrine disorders such as thyroiditis.
It is bacteriostatic, working by depriving bacteria of iron essential for growth.
Found on Neutrophils, Eosinophils and Monocytes Associated with some AML; Reed-Sternberg cells
It is often combined with acetaminophen in the preparation co-proxamol (Darvocet in the US and Capadex in AUS).
Chromosome painting probes are useful for examining complex chromosomal structural aberrations, for example, translocations or subtle rearrangements.
This gene encodes a paired-like homeodomain transcription factor in the developing pituitary gland.
If the dRVVT normalizes in the mixing study, a clotting factor deficiency is presumed to be the cause of the clotting abnormality.
Increased levels of the IGF-IR are expressed in the majority of primary and metastatic prostate cancer patient tumors.
The FF can help interpret GFR changes in the context of factors affecting blood flow to the kidneys, such as congestive heart failure .
Platelet glycoprotein IV (CD36) is an antigen expressed on platelets as well as several other cell types, such as monocytes, endothelial cells, and epithelial cells.
This is primarily caused by instantaneous renal failure, liver damage and various other organ failure.
Furthermore, nicardipine does not intrinsically decrease myocardial contractility and may be useful in the management of congestive heart failure.
The beta chain also plays a role in phosphorylation of the alpha chain.
This oxidase is a multicomponent enzyme that is activated to produce superoxide anion.
The presence of T at codon 136 has not been associated with scrapie resistance or susceptibility.
Vitamin K antagonist therapy causes a decrease in the active forms of coagulation factors II, VII, IX, and X, with a concomitant increase in non-functional forms of these factors.
Its name is derived from codeine, which has a very similar chemical structure.
Filaments that may be present in certain species are either straight or wavy and may have swollen or clubbed heads.
Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
Atriplex canescens (Chamiso, Chamiza, Four wing saltbush, Four-wing saltbush, Fourwing saltbush) is a species of evergreen shrub in the Amaranthaceae family, which is native to the western United States.
The body makes all the cholesterol it needs, however cholesterol also is found in some of the foods.
HER2/neu has also been designated as CD340 (cluster of differentiation 340) and p185.
The common brand-name for levmetamfetamine in the U.S. is the Vicks Inhaler.
An alpha-2 adrenergic agonist that has both central and peripheral nervous system effects.
Isolated high values may be seen in patients with ADD, lethargy, and seizures.
Pre-filter replacement has the advantage of reducing the risk of sludging or clogging the filter; however, it has the disadvantage of diluting the solute concentration in the blood and decreasing the efficiency of solute filtration.
It also interacts with and is phosphoryated by serine/threonine kinase 25, and is thought to function in a signaling pathway essential for vascular developent.
It is a cluster of differentiation found on the surface of natural killer cells, neutrophil polymorphonuclear leukocytes, monocytes and macrophages.
Its range extends from central and southwestern Arizona into southeastern California.
School staff uses this information to guide and authorize their treatment of the child's Inflammatory Bowel Disease while at school.
The products of the tree, especially the powder from the pods, are in widespread use both near the tree's habitats and throughout the industrialised world.
TNFα is a cell signaling protein that, when present in excess, may lead to the development of inflammatory immune diseases including Crohn's disease, rheumatoid arthritis, psoriatic arthritis and inflammatory bowel disease.
No commercial assays exist for proBNP (the whole peptide)- though the trade name for one companies NT-proBNP is "proBNP" -- a misnomer.
In vertebrate animals, neurons are found in the brain, the spinal cord and in the nerves and ganglia of the peripheral nervous system.
NHM levels are measured to screen and monitor patients with such conditions.
Hyaluronidases intracellularly degrade hyaluronan, one of the major glycosaminoglycans of the extracellular matrix.
This gene encodes a member of the DNA mismatch repair MutS family.
Columnar epithelia are divided into simple (or unilayered), and stratified (or multi-layered).
The activated protein is a cofactor that participates with activated coagulation factor X to activate prothrombin to thrombin.
Accidental worker exposure to 1,4-dioxane has resulted in several deaths.
Most people infected by T. whipplei are asymptomatic or have mild symptoms followed by a protective immune response.
Its conidia production is prolific, so humans are continually inhaling its ubiquitous spores.
Adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH or corticotropin) is a polypeptide hormone synthesized from pre-opiomelanocortin and secreted from corticotropes in the anterior lobe of the pituitary gland in response to the corticotropin-releasing hormone released by the hypothalamus.
Although natural transmission of Scrapie to other species has not been shown, TSEs are the subject of increased attention and concern because of the discovery of BSE in cattle and the link between it and variant Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease in humans.
Like other herpesviruses, BHV-1 causes a lifelong latent infection and shedding of the virus.
JWH stands for John W. Huffman, one of the inventors of the compound.
Individually, LSDs occur with incidences of less than 1:100.000, however, as a group the incidence is about 1:5000 - 1:10.000.
Among the many classified mitochondrial diseases, those involving dysfunctional COX assembly are thought to be the most severe.
Green beans are the unripe fruits of any kind of bean.
Neurophysins are carrier proteins for the hormones generated in the hypothalamus and distributed from the posterior pituitary.
In children, it is more common in the 1 to 3 year-old age group, and especially in children with Down syndrome .
The amount of foods containing little or no nutritive value other than energy consumed.
Given the ubiquitous presence of Tamm-Horsfall protein, other cast types are formed via the inclusion or adhesion of other elements to the hyaline base.
CO2 content is a measurement of total CO2 in the blood.
Orotic aciduria (a buildup of orotic acid) may be caused by a urea cycle disorder such as ornithine transcarbamoylase deficiency.
Other tests used as iron status indicators include ferritin, transferrin, TIBC, and iron saturation.(Jacobs and DeMott Laboratory Test Handbook, 5th edition, DS Jacobs, WR DeMott and DK Oxley, 2001.)
Confirmatory enzyme assays and/or molecular genetic testing are peformed to confirm a diagnosis.
ILHV belongs to the family Flaviviridae, genus Flavivirus in the Ntaya antigenic complex.
Peach, Prunus persica, is the fruit of a deciduous tree growing as high as 10 m and belonging to the subfamily Prunoideae of the family Rosaceae.
It possesses anxiolytic, anticonvulsant, sedative and skeletal muscle relaxant properties.
The increased risk for these cancers is due to inherited mutations that impair DNA mismatch repair.
This member is the principal inhibitor of tissue plasminogen activator (tPA) and urokinase (uPA), and hence is an inhibitor of fibrinolysis.
Exposure to canary droppings can lead to the development of respiratory symptoms and allergic disease.
Enterobacteriaceae are a large family of Gram-negative bacteria that include common disease-causing pathogens, such as Citrobacter, Enterobacter, Escherichia coli, Klebsiella, Proteus, Salmonella, Serratia, and Shigella.
As an example, it has been cited as a proinflammatory mediator in gingivitis and psoriasis.
Tissue plasminogen activator (tPA) converts inactive plasminogen into plasmin during fibrinolysis.
Trimipramine is not an abusable substance nor does it cause psychological dependence.
Low levels of Serotonin have been associated with several disorders, notably depression, migraine, bipolar disorder and anxiety.
The protein encoded by this gene is a component of the protein complex that includes elongin B, elongin C, and cullin-2, and possesses ubiquitin ligase E3 activity.
Hunter syndrome is an X-linked disorder with severe and attenuated forms.
F2 also plays a role in maintaining vascular integrity during development and postnatal life.
Patients with the CYP3A5 *3/*3 genotype have a higher risk of adverse events than patients with one or two *1 alleles.
The additional acute phase proteins included in the signal are alpha-1-acid glycoprotein, haptoglobin, alpha-1-antitrypsin, alpha-1-antichymotrypsin and transferrin.
C. botulinum Toxin types A, B, E, F can produce severe, potentially fatal illness in humans.
It is excreted when many aromatic compounds, such as benzoic acid and toluene, are taken internally.
Synthetic cannabinoids, like THC, act on the CB1 and CB2 receptors.
Also known as O-desmethylvenlafaxine and desvenlafaxine, it is the major active metabolite of venlafaxine, an antidepressant from the serotonin-norepinephrine reuptake inhibitor (SNRI class).
The oligosaccharide groups on gangliosides act as cell surface markers that play a role in cellular recognition and cell-to-cell communication, and they also act as specific receptors for certain pituitary glycoprotein hormones and certain bacterial protein toxins such as cholera toxin.
It is a genetically-inherited disease caused by a deficiency in the enzyme Sphingomyelinase, which causes the accumulation of Sphingomyelin in spleen, liver, lungs, bone marrow, and the brain, causing irreversible neurological damage.
HIV-1 and HIV-2 have the same routes of transmission, and both can cause acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS) (3); however, HIV-2 infections should be differentiated from HIV-1 infections because they are less likely to cause AIDS and their clinical management differs (4,5).
It participates in O-mannosyl glycosylation and is specific for alpha linked terminal mannose.
The enzyme's endogenous substrate is unknown; however, it is able to metabolize some PAHs to carcinogenic intermediates.
Insulin is used as a drug to control insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus.
2,5-Dimethoxy-4-bromoamphetamine (DOB), also known as Brolamfetamine and Bromo-DMA, is a psychedelic drug and substituted amphetamine of the phenethylamine class of compounds.
Of the five genera in the family, only influenza A virus (IAV), influenza B and C viruses are medically relevant to humans.
It increases in both right-sided and left-sided heart failure as well as in systolic and diastolic heart failure.
NADH cytochrome c reductase (NADH-CoQ reductase, Complex I+III) is part of the electron transport system (ETS).
The serum-ascites albumin gradient (SAAG) is a calculation used in medicine to help determine the cause of ascites.
CD38 (cluster of differentiation 38) is a glycoprotein found on the surface of many immune cells (white blood cells), including CD4+, CD8+, B and natural killer cells.
Murray Valley encephalitis virus (MVEV) is a zoonotic flavivirus endemic to northern Australia and New Guinea and is the causal agent of Murray Valley encephalitis.
The nitrogen in proline is referred to as a secondary amine.
Ergopeptine (or ergopeptide) alkaloids, including ergovaline, ergosine, ergotamine, ergocornine, ergocryptine, and ergocristine, are produced from the ergot fungi of the genus Claviceps.
Proteinase 3 (PR3) is an enzyme contained in white blood cell neutrophils.
Artemisia tridentata (also called sagebrush/common sagebrush, big sagebrush, blue/black sagebrush or mountain sagebrush) is a shrub or small tree from the family Asteraceae.
The virus causes a lethal haemorraghic disease in domestic pigs, some isolates can cause death of animals within as little as a week after infection.
Serum cholic acid rises more in intrahepatic cholestasis of pregnancy than chenodeoxycholic acid does.
Hydantoin-5-propionic acid is a metabolite of histidine, and urinary hydantoin-5-propionic acid can occur in patients with disorders of folate/vitamin B12 metabolism.
The Insulin-like Growth Factor 1 (IGF-1) Receptor is a transmembrane receptor that is activated by IGF-1 and by the related growth factor IGF-2.
Efavirenz is a Nonnucleoside Reverse Transcriptase Inhibitor (Non-NRTI) antiretroviral drug used in the treatment of HIV.
GlycA has notable analytical and clinical attributes that may supplement or improve upon current systemic inflammatory markers including for rheumatoid arthritis.
It displays a range of pharmacological actions including maintaining adrenergic innervation.
The codon AUG is also significant, in that it carries the Start message for a ribosome to begin protein translation from mRNA.
The carboxy-terminal two-thirds of subunit 1 have 22 non-identical, tandem HEAT repeats that form rod-like, helical structures.
Hemolytic anemia can be caused by red blood cell (RBC) membrane disorders such as hereditary spherocytosis, hereditary pyropoikilocytosis, hereditary elliptocytosis, and hereditary stomatocytosis.
Insulin-like growth factor binding protein 3 levels are used to diagnose growth hormone deficiency
The side effects of flupentixol are similar to most other typical antipsychotics, namely extrapyramidal symptoms of akathisia, muscle tremors, and rigidity and antihistamine effects like sedation and somnolence.
This includes cells in the GI tract, immune system lymphocytes, and sperm cells.
These viruses cause inapparent infection in their reservoir hosts, (sheep with OHV-2 and wildebeest with AHV-1) but are usually fatal in cattle and other ungulates such as deer, antelope, and buffalo
The nucleus is a bit large for a normal lymphocyte, without a corresponding increase in cytoplasmic size as you'd expect in a reactive lymphocyte.
ESRD Networks must examine the mortality rates of every Medicare approved facility within its area of responsibility.
Its levels in urine are elevated in hyperprolinemia, cystinosis, and Hartnup disease.
The APMVs are separated into distinct serotypes using Hemagglutination assay and Neuraminidase assay.
It functions as a transcription factor, and is essential for the normal development of dorsal limb structures, the glomerular basement membrane, the anterior segment of the eye, and dopaminergic and serotonergic neurons.
These are essential fatty acids that the body needs for brain function and cell growth.
The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.
The anterior chamber is demarcated by the cornea anteriorly and the iris posteriorly.
In certain cases the measurement of these metabolites in body fluids can be used to diagnose disorders associated with mitochondrial fatty acid beta-oxidation.
The most commonly encountered lidocaine preparations are marketed by AstraZeneca under the brand names Xylocaine and Xylocard, though lidocaine is also found in many other proprietary preparations.
The systematic name of this enzyme class is (indol-3-yl)lactate:NAD+ oxidoreductase.
Cysteine takes its name from cystine, named after the Greek kustis meaning bladder ˆ' cystine was first isolated from kidney stones.
Some cryoglobulinemias are associated with changes in serum complement levels, especially decreased complement C4, regardless of whether complements are part of the cryoglobulins themselves.
Acamprosate is thought to stabilize the chemical balance in the brain that would otherwise be disrupted by alcoholism, possibly by antagonizing glutamatergic N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors and agonizing gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) type A receptors.
A general term for the complete or partial loss of the ability to hear from one or both ears.
In the US, the capitalized "Whole Blood" means a specific standardized product for transfusion or further processing, where "whole blood" is any unmodified collected blood.
MUXF3 from Bromelin (glycoprotein extracted from pineapple) is a pure CCD reagent containing only the MUXF3 carbohydrate epitope, thus avoiding IgE antibody binding to other bromelin epitopes.
The morning measurement, which should be high, is most useful for diagnosing Addison's disease (too little cortisol) and the evening measurement, which should be low, is the most useful for diagnosing Cushing's disease (too much cortisol).
Chromosome 14 is also known to cause particular symptoms such as skeletal abnormalities, mental retardation and joint contractures among others.
Human neutrophil peptides (HNPs), also known as alpha defensins, are antimicrobial peptides released by activated neutrophils in response to infection.
Ghrelin is a 28-amino-acid peptide known as the "hunger hormone" and produced by ghrelin cells in the gastrointestinal tract where it has an important physiological effect on gastric acid secretion and gastrointestinal motility.
From these data, the diversity ratio is calculated as the relative number of gene segments from a particular gene family compared to the total.
Thus identification of a viral infection can be made by examining the characteristic cytopathic effect produced on different cell sheets.
The protein encoded by this gene is a lysosomal acid sphingomyelinase that converts sphingomyelin to ceramide.
C2 is consumed in angio-edma, and many kinds of infections because of increased consumption.
AJs are necessary for the creation and maintenance of epithelial cell layers by regulating cell growth and adhesion between cells.
Translocation (8;21) resulting in a fused transcript between RUNX1T1 (also known as ETO) and RUNX1 genes is one of the most common chromosomal translocations found in acute myeloid leukemia (AML).
Fluorides are organic and inorganic compounds containing the element fluorine.
STEC in swine has been demonstrated to cause edema disease.
Patients with complete loss of CD59 are more likely to have hemolysis compared to patients with partial loss of CD59.
Human parainfluenza viruses (HPIVs) are a group of four distinct serotypes of single-stranded RNA viruses belonging to the paramyxovirus family.
and exposure to London plane tree pollen can induce asthma, allergic rhinitis and allergic conjunctivitis; systemic reactions have occurred during immunotherapy
Currently over 200 species of this genus are recognized and new species continue to be described.
Type B2 lesions contain two or more type B characteristics.
Ibuprofen is a non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) widely marketed under various trademarks, including Herron Blue, Act-3, Advil, Brufen, Motrin, Nuprin, and Nurofen.
This multi-enzyme complex is related structurally and functionally to the oxoglutarate dehydrogenase and branched-chain oxo-acid dehydrogenase multi-enzyme complexes.
The team was led by Dr. Marco Marra and worked in collaboration with the British Columbia Centre for Disease Control and the National Microbiology Laboratory in Winnipeg, Manitoba, using samples from infected patients in Toronto.
The gland's response is assessed by measuring cortisol, growth hormone (GH), prolactin, thyroid-stimulating hormone (TSH), luteinizing hormone (LH) and follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH) hormone levels.
Evidence for the carcinogenicity of 1,3-dichloropropene in humans is inadequate, but results from several cancer bioassays provide adequate evidence of carcinogenicity in animals.
The illness was first reported in Saudi Arabia in 2012, but was later found to have originated in Jordan in 2012.
Sequence number to indicate the substance administration's order in a series.
Cryoglobulins may also contain complement components, such as C3, C4 and C1q.
The antibiotic primarily targets Mannheimia haemolytica, Pasteurella multocida and Histophilus somni bacteria which are the three most common pathogens found in BRD.
It may also mediate the attachment of stem cells to bone marrow extracellular matrix or directly to stromal cells.
Infection rates are highest in coastal areas where transmission of BFV to humans occurs most frequently by the mosquito Ochlerotatus (Aedes) vigilax.
Dipyridamole also inhibits the enzyme phosphodiesterase which normally breaks down cAMP.Adenosine interacts with the adenosine receptors to cause increased cAMP via adenylate cyclase.cAMP impairs platelet aggregation and also causes arteriolar smooth muscle relaxation.
The flaB gene is one of the genes that encode the core proteins for flagellin, a globular protein that forms the filament in a bacterial flagellum.
The helical structure of T. pallidum pallidum allows it to move in a corkscrew motion through viscous mediums such as mucus.
Different polymorphic forms, point mutations, and/or downregulation of this gene are associated with nocturnal asthma, obesity, type 2 diabetes and cardiovascular disease.
It has been reported that the activity of the enzyme against glycylproline (Gly-Pro) is almost totally deficient in patients with prolidase deficiency, whereas the activity against other substrates is not so deficient.
The fungi can cause tinea pedis, tinea cruris, tinea corporis, and onychomycosis.
CD10+/CD19+ is a component of the leukemia screen and is useful in the evaluation of coexpression of markers in acute leukemia and evaluation of minimal residual disease (MRD) after chemotherapy of bone marrow transplantation.
Hemoglobin G Philadelphia (HbG Phil) is a structural variant of the hemoglobin molecule that involves the alpha chain rather than the beta chain.
If the heparin anti-Xa concentration is below the therapeutic range, then the dosage of heparin may need to be increased to prevent excessive clotting.
MIB-1 is a proliferation marker that correlates with flow cytometric S-phase.
Propranolol is used in the treatment or prevention of many disorders including acute myocardial infarction, arrhythmias, angina pectoris, hypertension, hypertensive emergencies, hyperthyroidism, migraine, pheochromocytoma, menopause, and anxiety.
Stem cells are undifferentiated cells that have the potential to develop into many different types of cells.
The vaccine is recommended by the U.S. Department of Defense for military recruits entering basic training in order to prevent acute respiratory disease.
Despite the ability of o,p'- DDD to prevent excess hormone production, its side-effects are difficult to tolerate.
The AIP gene (aryl hydrocarbon receptor interacting protein) is located on chromosome 11q13.3.
The GEN-PROBE APTIMA Combo 2 Assay replicates a specific region of the 23S rRNA from CT and a specific region of the 16S rRNA from GC via DNA intermediates.
Acute HDV infections are associated with anti-HDV IgM antibody and chronic cases usually only demonstrate IgG antibody.
For example, hepatocellular carcinomas typically expresse K8 and K18, and cholangiocarcinomas express K7, K8 and K18, while metastases of colorectal carcinomas express K20, but not K7
This results in the production of fibrin and promotes clotting activity.
First observed in Uruguay in the early 1900s, it was deliberately introduced into Australia in an attempt to control rabbit infestation theresee rabbits in Australia.
Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
It is often abbreviated M. paratuberculosis or M. avium ssp.
Four subtypes of HBoV have been identified (HBoV 1-4), with subtypes 1-2 being the most common cause of illness.
Mutations in this gene cause oculocerebrorenal syndrome of Lowe and also Dent disease.
Yet, paradoxically, human APs have had considerable impact as tools of clinical investigation and intervention.
Allergen-exposure can occur at moth breeding (rearing) industries for pest control and as a contaminating factor in flour and cereals.
Proteus sp. strains can cause a range of illnesses from diarrhea, kidney stones and respiratory tract infections to meningitis.
HPV type 69 has been associated with low grade cervical abnormalities, cancer precursors, and anogenital cancers.
In addition, the high mutation rate of the HCV genome, combined with selective pressure from ongoing therapy, can lead to selection of additional HCV variants that are resistant to NS5A inhibitors.
The RS domain is rich in serine and arginine residues and facilitates interaction between different SR splicing factors.
Concave (spooning) nails may be present in patient's with iron deficiency anemia.
(Hev b) 2 is one of four latex antigens found to elicite a positive allergic response in greater than 60% of patients with latex allergies.
It is also the primary tumor marker for nonseminomatous testicular cancers.
Azlocillin is an acyl ampicillin antibiotic with an extended spectrum of activity and greater in vitro potency than the carboxy penicillins.
Not to be confused with other trees of the Cupressaceae family: Juniper, Mountain cedar/Mountain juniper, Japanese cypress/False cypress, Western red cedar, Eastern red cedar, Eastern white cedar.
It is a substance of abuse and can be easily manufactured via the oxidation of pseudoephedrin.
Sequencing the N-450 region can identify the genotype of the infecting virus.
The most immature reticulocytes (HFR) produce higher scatter, with the more mature reticulocytes producing the medium and low scatter.
Pholcodine (CLSI allergen code c261), also known as morpholinylethylmorphine, is an antitussive morphine derivative (cough suppressant) sold over the counter in many countries and also found in certain cough lozenges.
Rubella virus genome consists of enveloped, non-segmented, positive sense RNA.
An alkylating agent having a selective immunosuppressive effect on bone marrow.
The waveform found on a multifocal electroretinogram (mfERG) is typically a biphasic wave.
IgA has two subclasses (IgA1 and IgA2) and can exist in a dimeric form called secretory IgA (sIgA).
Metoprolol is a selective beta1 receptor blocker used in treatment of several diseases of the cardiovascular system.
This protein is one of the major receptors for the tumor necrosis factor-alpha.
Some of the members are active cysteine protease inhibitors, while others have lost or perhaps never acquired this inhibitory activity.
Hydrogen fluoride is a chemical compound with the formula HF.
Mevalonic acid is a key intermediate in the biosynthesis of terpenes and steroids.
The arylsulfatase B homodimer hydrolyzes sulfate groups of N-Acetyl-D-galactosamine, chondriotin sulfate, and dermatan sulfate.
Has a pungent and savoury flavour, used to flavour curries and spicy dishes.
The gene is primarily expressed in renal tissues, and the protein is a type-1 transmembrane protein found at the slit diaphragm of glomerular podocytes.
The macula is the portion of the retina responsible for central vision on which visual images are focused by the lens.
It therefore has to be stored under the cover of oil to stop its oxidation.
Meprobamate is taken orally and may be administered on its own or in combination with other drugs such as, aceprometazine, quinine, or ergotamine, caffeine and chlorcyclizine.
Ketoconazole is a synthetic antifungal drug used to prevent and treat skin and fungal infections, especially in immunocompromised patients such as those with AIDS.
It primarily causes respiratory symptoms in young children under the age of two.
Traditionally anti-dsDNA antibodies have been among the ones used for diagnosis and monitoring of SLE, however, studies have shown that for some patients, the nucleosome is the primary antigen in SLE, and anti-nucleosome antibodies may provide a better reflection of disease activity.
It is very soluble in water, soluble in ethanol, and miscible with diethyl ether.
It is also not widely used in treatment of neuropathic pain, trigeminal neuralgia, migraine.
When the inversion mutation is identified in a family, at-risk females may be tested to determine their hemophilia A carrier status.
Recombinant Bet v 1 was among the first allergen-encoding cDNAs isolated and has significant sequence homology to a group of pathogenesis-related plant proteins and has been classified as a PR-10 protein.
2-hydroxyphenylacetic acid is a metabolite of p-tyramine and a biochemical marker for lung cancer, schizophrenia, spina bifida, and some metabolic diseases, such as phenylketonuria (PKU).
It was first discovered in the Northeast, but has spread to counties of the lower Hudson River Valley of New York State and on to the upper Midwest.
The dRVVT screen to confirm ratio is calculated as Screen dRVVT/Confirm dRVVT, and the dRVVT percent correction is calculated as x100.
This gene encodes a seven-transmembrane domain protein that functions to transport cystine out of lysosomes.
Although vecuronium bromide is often thought of as a muscle relaxant, it may be more accurate to classify it as a paralyzing agent.
The production of FGF23 is regulated by a variety of factors, including calcium and phosphate levels, 1,25 dihydroxyvitamin D, parathyroid hormone, and iron deficiency.
Porphyrins build up among patients with hereditary enzyme disorders known as porphyrias.
The ACADSB gene (acyl-CoA dehydrogenase, short/branched chain) is located on chromosome 10q26.13.
The repetitiveness and complexity of the sequence have also caused difficulty in determining the organization of this genomic region.
Common (Short) ragweed is native to North America, but can also be found in Canada, Japan, Australia and Europe.
This gene encodes a member of the receptor tyrosine kinase family of proteins and the product of the proto-oncogene MET.
Each of these aneuploidies may be associated with different clinical syndromes.
Over 30 single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) have been identified in this gene, most of which are not clinically significant.
MET gene amplification studies evaluate the number of copies of the MET gene present in a single cell.
Moderately increased levels of IDL cholesterol are closely associated with a high frequency of coronary artery disease.
Macrometastases are metastatic deposits that are greater than 2 mm in diameter.
The use of alternate polyadenylation sites has been found for this gene.
A normal or low FVC with an FEV1/FVC of <0.7 indicates obstructive pulmonary disease, while low FVC and FEV1/FVC of >0.7 indicates respiratory disease.
Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
It is thought that the infection is established by hematogenous spread from the gastrointestinal tract.
Most patients develop fevers of 101-104 degrees F with chills and muscle rigidity.
Cytochrome P450-2D6 (CYP2D6;), a member of the cytochrome P450 mixed-function oxidase system, is involved in the metabolism approximately 25% of drugs in current clinical use.
Benzoic acid, C7H6O2 (or C6H5COOH), is a colorless crystalline solid and the simplest aromatic carboxylic acid.
The L-form (L-arginine) is one of the 20 most common natural amino acids.
Additional allele specific isoforms, including a secreted form, have been described but have not been fully characterized.
Agranulocytosis is a major adverse effect associated with administration of this agent.
The exact origin of the species is unknown, although it is thought to have originated in Africa or the Middle East 4,000 years ago.
Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been found for this gene.
Symptoms when present include fever, sore throat, fatigue, swollen glands.
Histrelin acetate is a nonapeptide analog of gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH) with added potency.
This protein kinase lies upstream of MAP kinases and stimulates the enzymatic activity of MAP kinases upon wide variety of extra- and intracellular signals.
Maternal serum levels of PAPP-A in the first trimester are significantly lower if the fetus is affected by Down syndrome.
The RMRP gene (RNA component of mitochondrial RNA processing endoribonuclease) is located on chromosome 9p13.3.
An elevated white blood cell (WBC) count is not a specific marker for sepsis, and a better measure may be the WBC in conjunction with the MDW, because monocytes are early responders to pathogenic organisms and their immune response causes them to increase in size.
Telbivudine is an antiviral drug used in the treatment of hepatitis B infection.
It only offers advantage over the 2nd generation test in special cases.
A commonly occurring abnormal hemoglobin in which lysine replaces a glutamic acid residue at the sixth position of the beta chains.
The presence of this molecule on neutrophils can aid in the diagnosis of infection and sepsis, and immuotherapeutic agents targeting CD64 have emerged as candidates for treatment of chronic inflammatory diseases such as atopic dermatitis, rheumatoid arthritis, and autoimmune disorders .
Expansion of the trinucleotide repeat may also cause one form of premature ovarian failure (POF1).
Patients with dermal invasion without inflammatory disease have significantly longer disease-free and overall survival compared to those with inflammatory disease.
Codon 136 codes for either alanine (A), valine (V) or threonine (T).
Hepcidin lowers iron concentrations by counteracting the function of ferroportin, a major cellular iron exporter.
Trichloroethane can refer to either of two isomeric chemical compounds: 1,1,1-Trichloroethane (methyl chloroform) & 1,1,2-Trichloroethane (vinyl trichloride)
The RRM2B (ribonucleotide reductase regulatory TP53 inducible subunit M2B) gene is located on chromosome 8 at position q22.3.
Deficiencies of any of these, or vitamin B6, could cause increases in AABA.
Iothalamate clearance is one method used to measure a patient's glomerular filtration rate (GFR).
The presence of intestinal isoenzymes is common and typically not associated with any pathological condition, especially at normal total AP activity level.
Once proteins are metabolized in the liver, urea nitrogen is released from the liver to the kidneys via the bloodstream.
Among leading producers are the larger islands of the Caribbean, California, New Zealand, the Philippines, Australia, South Africa and several Mediterranean countries.
Human bocavirus (HBoV) is a parvovirus that was first identified in 2005 and has been found in a variety of specimen types, including respiratory, stool, blood, and urine.
The latter is converted to oxaloacetate and then malate in the Krebs cycle.
This protein is predicted to contain 7-9 transmembrane domains localized in the mitochondrial inner membrane.
Asthma, allergic rhinitis and allergic conjunctivitis may result following exposure to Chicken feathers, epithelial cells or droppings.
It is part of a group of peptides with amino acid sequence and biological function similar to angiotensin-(1-8) octapeptide (Angiotensin II).
A higher proton ion concentration results in a lower pH value.
The identification of mature and immature granulocytes, including myelocytes and metamyelocytes, in blood and bone marrow is fundamental to the diagnosis of haematological disorders.
Antibodies against the antigen are used in the medical specialty of anatomic pathology in order to recognize cells of melanocytic differentiation, useful for the diagnosis of a melanoma.
Naphyrone, (O-2482, β-naphyrone, or naphthylpyrovalerone) is a drug derived from pyrovalerone that acts as a triple reuptake inhibitor, producing stimulant effects and has been reported as a novel cathinone designer drug or substance of abuse.
The activity level of Complex III is measured as part of mitochondrial and metabolic testing to assess neurodegenerative diseases.
It plays an essential role in T-cell interactions and also in T-cell/B-cell interaction during early lymphoid development.
The ETV6 (ETS variant 6) gene is located on chromosome 12 at 12p13.2.
Veterinary Medicine: Sulfadimethoxine is a long-acting sulfonamide antibiotic, and is used to primarily treat coccidial infections in animals.
This is an erect perennial herb growing a slender, branching, straw-colored stem to a maximum height near two meters, but more often remaining under one meter tall.
Respiratory disease can ultimately effect CO2 content, but only slightly and only if prolonged.
Decreased levels are associated with asthma, pulmonary edema and acute lung injuries.
Clinical trials have shown it to be significantly more effective than lamivudine or adefovir, and less likely to cause resistance.
The mechanism of heptaminol's therapeutic actions is not well understood although it has been suggested to affect catecholamine release or calcium metabolism.
2-Hydroxyadipic acid is a hydroxy-dicarboxylic acid formed by the reduction of 2-ketoadipic acid.
The drug is typically sprayed on botanical material and smoked, although it can be ingested in liquid or powder form.
Aprobarbital (Oramon) is a barbiturate derivative invented in the 1920s.
Very long chain fatty acids and the ratios of C24/C22 and C26/C22 are increased in conditions affecting peroxisomal fatty acid metabolism such as X-linked Adrenoleukodystrophy (X-ALD), Zellweger Syndrome, and to some extent in rhizomelic chondrodysplasia punctata (RCDP).
These are aromatic compounds containing a benzoic acid, which is esterified with an alkyl group and para-substituted with a hydroxyl group.
A higher prevalence of BKV is seen among HIV positive patients with lower CD4 cell counts.
Response recommendations: list of basic and emergency first aid actions to take in response to child's seizure activity, 4.
Like citalopram and escitalopram, didesmethyl(es)citalopram functions as a selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor (SSRI), and is responsible for some of its parents' therapeutic benefits.
It is instrumental in promoting efflux of cholesterol from extrahepatic tissue to the liver where it is metabolized and excreted from the body.
Mexiletine is a Class 1B antiarrhythmic compound with electrophysiologic properties similar to lidocaine, but orally active.
The dialysate fluid flows across the external side of the dialysis membrane.
Rho(D) Immune Globulin is a medicine given by intramuscular injection which is used to prevent the immunological condition known as Rhesus disease (or hemolytic disease of newborn).
Streptococcus anginosus is part of the human bacteria flora, but can cause diseases including brain and liver abscesses under certain circumstances.
The HPRT1 gene (hypoxanthine phosphoribosyltransferase 1) is located on chromosome Xq26.1.
Recent concerns with depletion of the ozone layer by freon gases have led to increased use of isobutane as a gas for refrigeration systems, especially in domestic refrigerators and freezers, and as a propellant in aerosol sprays.
As a component of myoglobin, a protein that provides oxygen to muscles, iron supports metabolism.
His limited experiments on laboratory colleagues demonstrated three distinct groups; his pupils Von Decastello and Sturli discovered a fourth group in 1902.
NLS1 is a lethal, autosomal recessive syndrome associated with ichthyosis, marked intrauterine growth restriction, microcephaly, hypoplastic lungs and central nervous system anomalies.
The major metabolite of amiodarone is desethylamiodarone (DEA), which also has antiarrhythmic properties
Phase and amplitude together are used to classify wall motion, which is also a measure of cardiac dyssynchrony.
Each of these factors contains an RNA recognition motif (RRM) for binding RNA and an RS domain for binding other proteins.
Anecdotal evidence suggests that asthma and hayfever are possible following exposure to pollen from this plant; however, no studies have been reported to date.
E. coli O157:H7 (enterohemorrhagic E. coli or EHEC) is a well-known food-borne pathogen.
The smaller fragment formed when complement C4 is cleaved by COMPLEMENT C1S. It is an anaphylatoxin that causes symptoms of immediate hypersensitivity (HYPERSENSITIVITY, IMMEDIATE)
MA use can lead to stroke, cardiac arrhythmia, stomach cramps, shaking, anxiety, insomnia, paranoia, hallucinations, and structural changes to the brain.
It is present in very small amounts in the body.
Phosphines are also a group of organophosphorus compounds with the formula R3P (R = organic derivative).
Reduced levels of 21-hydroxylase negatively affect the production of cortisol.
The Obstructive apnea index (OAI) is calculated by dividing the number of events by the number of hours of sleep.
The encoded protein is found in the Golgi body and interacts with RPGRIP1.
Two isomers are of particular interest all-cis-7,10,13,16,19-docosapentaenoic acid is an ω-3 fatty acid with the trivial name clupanodonic acid, commonly called DPA.
Lutheran antigens rarely cause serious transfusion reactions or hemolytic disease of the newborn (possibly because of weak expression on cord red blood cells).
Symptoms of pellagra include skin disease, diarrhea, dementia and depression.
Magnesium is widely distributed in plant and animal foods and in beverages.
Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
In addition, a low-starch or starch-free diet is advised in some cases, especially in the first few years of life.
Tryptophan metabolism regulates levels of amines, including serotonin, kynurenines, melatonin and trace amines.
Glucuronidated bilirubin (also called conjugated) is a water-soluble form of bilirubin that is made in the liver by the addition of sugar molecules to non-glucuronidated bilirubin.
Olanzapine is metabolized to norolanzapine in the liver by CYP1A2.
In IHC testing, P504S is used as a specific marker of prostatic adenocarcinoma.
This gene encodes a major catalytic subunit of succinate-ubiquinone oxidoreductase, a complex of the mitochondrial respiratory chain.
A species of gram-negative bacteria (currently incertae sedis) causing multisystem disease in CATTLE.
Codeine is a plant alkaloid of opium that relieves acute or chronic pain and suppresses cough.
Test agents for stimulation include ADP, collagen, epinephrine, ristocetin, thrombin and arachidonic acid.
Blood or plasma MDPV concentrations are expected to be in a range of 10-50 μg/L in persons using the drug recreationally, >50 μg/L in intoxicated patients and >300 μg/L in victims of acute overdosage.
In Aardvarks Teeth lack enamel and have many pulp tubules, hence the name of the order Tubulidentata.
Glycophorins A (GYPA) and B (GYPB) are major sialoglycoproteins of the human erythrocyte membrane which bear the antigenic determinants for the MN and Ss blood groups.
This gene encodes a receptor tyrosine kinase, which belongs to the insulin receptor superfamily.
Cytochrome P450 1A2 (CYP1A2)-mediated drug metabolism is highly variable and often based on a patient's genotype.
Factor XIII is an autosomal recessive disorder and is not detectable by the routine coag tests.
Interleukin-5 is also expressed by eosinophils and has been observed in the mast cells of asthmatic airways by immunohistochemistry.
A major group of polyphyletic organisms of extremely varied morphology and physiology, mostly photosynthetic, but distinguished from plants by their complex form of sexual reproduction.
As with lead, overexposure to bismuth can result in the formation of a black deposit on the gingiva, known as a bismuth line.
Anecdotal evidence suggests that lovage may induce symptoms of food allergy in sensitised individuals; however, no studies have been reported to date; it is possible that allergy to lovage, which is closely related to the significantly allergenic carrot and celery, occurs more frequently than has been reported.
The subgroups of adenovirus infect certain areas of the body.
White bean (the beans actually range in color from pale green to creamy white) is a term given to varieties of beans that have light-colored seeds.
Oxygen Desaturation Index is the average number of oxygen desaturation events, which may be defined, depending on local protocol, as desaturations of either ≥3% or ≥4%, per hour of study duration.
Prochlorperazine (Compazine, Stemzine, Buccastem, Stemetil, Phenotil) is a drug that belongs to the phenothiazine and antiemetic classes.
During activation of the plasma factor XI, an internal peptide bond is cleaved by factor XIIa (or XII) in each of the two chains, resulting in activated factor XIa, a serine protease composed of two heavy and two light chains held together by disulfide bonds.
Charcoal is the blackish residue consisting of impure carbon obtained by removing water and other volatile constituents from animal and vegetation substances.
Deficiency of this enzyme activity results in the autosomal recessive disorder phenylketonuria.
It is present in South and Center America, the Caribbean (including Puerto Rico), Africa, the Middle East, and Eastern and Southern Europe.
Factor V inhibitors are associated with hemorrhagic symptoms that can vary from mild to severe, and some patients have also presented with thrombosis.
Expansion of a polyalanine repeat region and other mutations in this gene are a cause of blepharophimosis syndrome and premature ovarian failure 3.
These spirochetes include B. burgdorferi sensu stricto (North America and Western Europe), B. afzelii (Central and Western Europe and Russia), and B. garinii (Europe, Russia, and northern Asia).
Although it is a close relative of the major pathogenic species, Candida albicans, and rates of invasive disease caused by C. dubliniensis are possibly increasing, it has proven to be less virulent.
Etanercept is a tumor-necrosis factor (TNF) inhibitor, and works by blocking the action of the protein TNF-alpha, which is a proinflammatory cytokine.
The protein binds to DNA as either a homodimer, or a heterodimer with the related protein hepatocyte nuclear factor 1-alpha.
A TETRACYCLINE analog, having a 7-dimethylamino and lacking the 5 methyl and hydroxyl groups, which is effective against tetracycline-resistant STAPHYLOCOCCUS infections.
Within these three genogroups 25 genotypes have been discovered, which is why people can be infected multiple times throughout their lives.
The wasps gather fibres from old wood and dry dead plant stems, chew them, and mix with saliva to make a water-resistant gray or brown paper.
Transcript variants utilizing alternative polyadenylation signals exist for this gene.
Diethyl sulfate is a highly toxic and likely carcinogenic chemical compound with formula (C2H5)2SO4.
Most fragments have the same biological activity as the whole molecule.
These serogroups include Salmonella Typhi, Salmonella Enteritidis, Salmonella Paratyphi, Salmonella Typhimurium, and Salmonella Choleraesuis.
The degree of nuclear pleomorphism (variability of nuclei) in breast carcinoma is one component of the Nottingham histologic grade (NHG), which is a prognostic indicator for patients with breast carcinoma.
It is an auto-antibody directed against the Fc portion of IgG, which is itself an antibody.
Some cells synthesize it from citrulline, aspartic acid and use it as a precursor for arginine in the urea cycle or Citrulline-NO cycle.
Although it has been proposed that mesothelin may be involved in cell adhesion, its biological function is not known.
Heptachlor is toxic to humans and animals, causing irritability, salivation and dizziness when recurrently inhaled or exposed in and around the mouth.
Amiodarone belongs to a class of drugs called Vaughan-Williams Class III antiarrhythmic agent.
It is difficult to culture in vitro which has impeded an understanding of how it is transmitted, in what environment it resides and why infected individuals have such different clinical outcomes.
Morphine is an extremely powerful opiate analgesic drug and is the principal active agent in opium.
This gene encodes the human homolog of the proto-oncogene c-kit.
AST is typically tested in conjunction with alanine aminotransferase (ALT) when a liver panel is ordered.
YKL-40 is an early diagnostic and prognostic biomarker for ovarian, colorectal and other cancers as well as rheumatoid arthritis and similar debilitating diseases.
St. Louis Encephalitis is a disease caused by the mosquito borne St. Louis Encephalitis virus.
Eosinophil major basic protein is a 14-kDa cytotoxic peptide with a pI of 10.9.
Uroprophyrinogen Decarboxylase (Upg D) deficiency of Upg D activity causes an accumulation of uroporphyrins and hepta-, hexa-, and pentacarboxyl porphyrins in the skin, subcutaneous tissues, and liver, often resulting in the most common form of porphyria, porphyria cutanea tarda (PCT).
Adenoviruses usually cause respiratory illness with symptoms ranging from the common cold to pneumonia, croup, and bronchitis.
CD158a (KIR2DL1), CD158b (KIR2DL3), and CD158e (KIR3DL1) are killer cell inhibitory receptors.
Colza oil is a non-drying oil obtained from the seeds of Brassica campestris, var.
Zonisamide is a sulfonamide anticonvulsant used in combination with other medications to treat certain types of seizures.
Cystitis is the condition most frequently associated with the finding of these cells in the urine.
Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
Extreme exposure to chlordane can lead to symptoms of poisoning including nausea, vomiting and gut pain followed by convulsions.
LBP strongly binds to LPS and transfers it to the cellular LPS receptor made up of CD14 and Toll-like receptor-4.
4-Hydroxyproline, or hydroxyproline (C 5 H 9 O 3 N), is an uncommon amino acid, abbreviated as HYP.
Consequently inhibiting COX-2 may have benefit in the prevention and treatment of these types of cancer.
Acetylcholine in vertebrates is the major transmitter at neuromuscular junctions, autonomic ganglia, parasympathetic effector junctions, a subset of sympathetic effector junctions, and at many sites in the central nervous system.
Due to its side-effect profile, it has been superseded by newer antifungals, such as fluconazole and itraconazole.
Hemoglobins exhibit different migration patterns in alkaline versus acidic electrophoresis conditions.
The c.35delG mutation in the GJB2 gene is associated with autosomal recessive deafness Type 1A and digenic deafness.
Hyperactivity, EEG abnormalities and seizures, and severe learning disabilities are major clinical problems later in life.
Leishmania is a genus of trypanosome protozoa, and is the parasite responsible for the disease leishmaniasis.
Urinary-free cortisol concentration closely approximates the unconjugated plasma cortisol concentration.
EPA and DHA are found primarily in fatty fish including salmon, mackerel, tuna, herring, and sardines and in algae and krill.
LysoPC increase inflammatory mediators such as cytokines, adhesion molecules and the chemotactic mediator MCP-1.
Over 127 mutations in the antithrombin gene are known to cause hereditary antithrombin deficiency.
DNA mismatch repair protein Mlh3 (MLH3) is a DNA mismatch repair protein encoded by the MLH3 gene.
Folate red blood cell (RBC) measurements are used in identification of dietary folate deficiency that might be otherwise difficult to ascertain since serum folate concentration may rapidly rise to normal level after just one balanced meal whereas RBC folate increases more slowly.
As defined by the NPUAP, a pressure ulcer is localized injury to the skin and/or underlying tissue usually over a bony prominence, as a result of pressure, or pressure in combination with shear.
To measure motility, a simple system for grading is recommended that distinguishes spermatozoa with progressive or non-progressive motility from those that are immotile.
It is administered in the drinking water of chickens, and by IM injection to cattle for the treatment of respiratlry disease.
These are reported as a pair of one character amino acid codes such as RR, RH, QQ, etc.
S apiospermum was originally thought to be a form of Pseudoallescheria boydii, another opportunistic pathogen.
The presence of MBLs can be detected by comparing the inhibitory concentration (IC) of a specific antimicrobial, such as imipenem or meropenem, with the IC of that antimicrobial plus EDTA.
Complex II of the respiratory chain, which is specifically involved in the oxidation of succinate, carries electrons from FADH to CoQ.
This protein also contains an N-terminal phosphotyrosine binding domain that allows it to interact with numerous tyrosine-phosphorylated substrates and target them for proteasome degradation.
ProBNP is the 108 amino acid pro-hormone of BNP (Brain Naturetic Peptide) that is produced mainly in the left ventricle.
If burned, endrin can produce toxic hydrogen chloride and phosgene.
The HTT gene is located on chromosome 4 and position p16.3.
This gene is thought to function in the organization and stabilization of sterocilia elongation and actin cystoskeletal assembly, based on studies of the related mouse gene.
The I169T mutation is associated with Lamivudine and Adefovir resistance.
Haemophilus influenzae is a gram-negative bacteria and is the cause of a variety of infections including otitis media and upper respiratory tract infections, as well as more severe infections in patients who are not immunized, such as meningitis and sepsis.
The serine-threonine protein kinase encoded by the AKT1 gene is catalytically inactive in serum-starved primary and immortalized fibroblasts.
L-ser also plays a specific role in the CNS, and patients with defects of L-ser synthesis have significant neurological impairment.
This disease is most prevalent in Southeast Asia and the Far East.
The dietary supplement was originally processed from cow brains but because of the prion disease scares in the 1990s the process was outlawed.
The calculations incorporate the CSF-serum albumin quotient, an indicator of blood-brain-barrier (BBB) function, in order to differentiate whether the immunoglobulins found in the CSF were produced intrathecally or leaked across the BBB.
It is useful in defining menstrual cycle phases in infertility evaluation of women and testicular dysfunction in men.
They can attack the host's cells that express a foreign peptide on their MHC class I surface proteins.
Redtop pollen can induce asthma, allergic rhinitis and allergic conjunctivitis.
A synthetic hormone with anabolic and androgenic properties and moderate progestational activity.
M. intracellulare is not easily distinguished from M. avium and therefore is included in the complex.
Carbohydrates consisting of between two (DISACCHARIDES) and ten MONOSACCHARIDES connected by either an alpha- or beta-glycosidic link.
Trans fatty acids (also called trans fats, or trans-unsaturated fatty acids) are manufactured fats created during a process called hydrogenation, that is aimed at stabilizing polyunsaturated oils to prevent them from becoming rancid, and to keep them solid at room temperature.
IL-5 is a 115 amino acid (in man, 133 in the mouse) long TH2 cytokine which is part of the hematopoietic family.
Predicted to be located in acrosomal vesicle; extracellular region; and plasma membrane.
Refrigeration and freezing do not kill all the bacteria, but substantially slow or halt their growth.
The residual portion of blood that is left after removal of blood cells by centrifugation without prior blood coagulation.
Basophils and mast cells are not normally found in body fluids, but when present, are most commonly associated with inflammatory conditions, foreign body reactions, and parasitic infestations.
PCV are the smallest viruses replicating autonomously in eukaryotic cells by utilizing the host polymerase for genome amplification.
Pyruvate carboxylase deficiency (PCD) is a rare disorder causing developmental delay and failure to thrive at birth or in early infancy.
Causes of high airway pressure include asynchronous breathing, pneumothorax, bronchial obstruction or hyperinflation and bronchospasm.
Chondroitin sulfate is an important structural component of cartilage and provides much of its resistance to compression.
The ALK gene (anaplastic lymphoma receptor tyrosine kinase) is located on chromosome 2p23.
The CYP2C9 gene (cytochrome P450, family 2, subfamily C, polypeptide 9) is located on chromosome 10q24.
A monosaccharide in sweet fruits and honey that is soluble in water, alcohol, or ether.
The activity level of Complex I+III is measured as part of mitochondrial and metabolic testing to assess neurodegenerative diseases.
BM, composed mainly of TYPE IV COLLAGEN; glycoprotein LAMININ; and PROTEOGLYCAN, provides barriers as well as channels between interacting cell layers.
C. freundii strains have inducible ampC genes encoding resistance to ampicillin and first-generation cephalosporins.
There are eleven types of EV-G that have been identified in Asia, Europe, and recently North America.
Citrate testing is used to diagnose renal tubular acidosis and evaluate kidney stone disease.
Allergy to pollen from Bayberry has not been commonly reported.
They are small coccobacillary or rod-shaped, non-motile organisms, which are also facultative intracellular parasites of macrophages.
When present, the mecA gene confers resistance to cephalosporins or methicillin.
A key predictor of clinical response to replacement therapy is a patient's CRIM (cross-reactive immunological material to GAA) status, which is based on the presence or absence of endogenous GAA.
Aminoacyl-tRNA synthetases are a class of enzymes that charge tRNAs with their cognate amino acids.
This gene encodes a lysosomal protein which hydrolyzes the galactose ester bonds of galactosylceramide, galactosylsphingosine, lactosylceramide, and monogalactosyldiglyceride.
The syndecans mediate cell binding, cell signaling, and cytoskeletal organization and syndecan receptors are required for internalization of the HIV-1 tat protein.
Overexpression of VEGFs can also cause vascular disease in the retina of the eye and other parts of the body.
Chlamydia refers to a genus of bacteria that are obligate intracellular parasites.
Shagbark hickory(Carya ovata) belongs to the Juglandaceae family in the Hickory/Pecan genera.
The main pathogenic species of Brucella are Brucella melitensis, Brucella suis and Brucella abortus.
Since each P146 nucleotide sequence will vary in length due to the multiple repeat regions, the nucleotide sequence is translated to amino acids for P146 phylogenetic analysis.
The majority of species live in the soil and are not harmful to humans.
In patients with birch allergies this antigen may the root cause of allergies from many foods.
Pemoline has some advantages over other stimulants in that it does not reduce the appetite or cause dry mouth.
The molecule consists of six-carbon cyclic molecule with a ketone functional group.
A common mnemonic is "OVRPS" (Optochin - Viridans Resistant, Pneumoniae Sensitive).
Symptoms of infection with CVA9 include respiratory infections, myocarditis, encephalitis, paralysis, rash, and severe generalized infections in newborns.
The simplest synthetic molecule in the 4-hydroxycoumarin class is warfarin, in which the aromatic 3-position substituent is a simple phenyl group.
It is a white, odorless, crystalline compound which is freely soluble in water and usually dispensed in tablet form.
Measuring gas flow is routinely used to diagnose various pathologies of the lung such as bronchial obstruction or hyperinflation as well as monitoring patients during surgery or while ventilated.
Organisms producing CTX-M type ESBL enzymes have been isolated worldwide with more than 150 enzymes identified.
These are reported as a pair of one character amino acid codes such as RR, RH, QQ, etc.
Drug users develop a distinctive extrapyramidal syndrome that resembles classic manganese intoxication.
Pseudohyphae are not true septate hyphae and are distinguished from "true hyphae" by their method of growth, relative frailty and lack of cytoplasmic connection between the cells.
It is somewhat acidic and has mild antiseptic properties, being sometimes used in the treatment of burns and lacerations.
The term derives from the roots Angio or vessel and plasticos fit for molding.
In many European languages, the word paprika also refers to bell peppers themselves.
Mutations to the genes coding for type-IV collagen lead to Alport syndrome.
Sandfly fever Naples virus and Sandfly fever Sicilian virus infections share symptoms and clinical similarity.
The evidential basis on which the allelic phase and/or the allelic state was concluded.
Due to these problems it is unusual for ethchlorvynol to be prescribed for periods exceeding seven days.
This gene is clustered with other serine protease gene family members, azurocidin 1 and proteinase 3 genes, at chromosome 19pter.
VLCAD deficiency is cause by mutations in the ACADVL gene, which are inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern.
The protein encoded by this gene is involved in the conversion of tyrosine to dopamine.
In the US one in three children are infected by CMV by the age of five and over half of adults are infected by age 40.
It also causes skin infections in dogs and mastistis in cows.
Famciclovir is indicated for the treatment of herpes zoster (shingles),treatment of herpes simplex virus 2 (genital herpes) ,herpes labialis (cold sores) in immunocompetent patients and for the suppression of recurring episodes of herpes simplex virus 2.
The liver secretes transthyretin into the blood, and the choroid plexus secretes TTR into the cerebrospinal fluid.
It is native to western North America from British Columbia to Texas,
1p36 deletion syndrome is caused by the deletion of several genes in the short arm of chromosome 1 and is associated with severe cognitive delay, seizure disorder, weak muscle tone, swallowing difficulty, and distinctive facial features.
As reticulocytes mature, they progressively accumulate hemoglobin and lose RNA, so maturity can be measured based on the reticulocyte RNA content.
Barbiturates are CNS depressants that primarily act on gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) and GABA A receptors.
The encoded protein has been implicated in several pathologic processes, including myofibril necrosis in myopathies and in myocardial ischemia, and in the renal tubular response to proteinuria.
All three forms have been responsible for high mortality rates in epidemics throughout human history, for example, the Great Plague and the Black Death, the latter of which accounted for the death of approximately one third of the European population in 1347 to 1353.
When in tissue culture, the spread of virus is restricted by an overlay of agar (or other suitable substance) and thus the cytopathic effect may lead to formation of plaque.
There is an estimated 5 million new cases of TV annually in the United States and yet TV is still not a reportable disease.
Symptoms of chronic exposure to Tetrachlorodiphenylethane include atrophy of the adrenal cortex and liver damage.
Some synonyms for Rocky Mountain spotted fever in other countries include tick typhus, Tobia fever (Colombia), Sao Paulo fever or febre maculosa (Brazil), and fiebre manchada (Mexico).
The mitochondrial ribosome recycling factor (MRRF) gene is a protein-coding gene and located on the long arm of chromosome 9 at position 33.2.
JWH stands for John W. Huffman, one of the inventors of the compound.
17-Hydroxypregnenetriol is a component of urinary steroid profiling analyses for diagnosing conditions such as congenital adrenal hyperplasia, 21-hydroxylase deficiency and 3-beta-hydroxysteroid dehyfrogenase deficiency.
This encoded protein is a cell surface glycoprotein that is known to complex with integrins and other transmembrane
Phentermine, a contraction of "phenyl-tertiary-butylamine", is a psychostimulant drug of the phenethylamine class, with pharmacology similar to amphetamine.
Non-infectious spherical and tubular particles are also seen in the serum.
HGF plasmid DNA therapy targeted to cardiomyocytes is being examined as a potential treatment for coronary artery disease and for damaged cardiac tissue post-myocardial infarction.
These observations led to research investigating the relationship of elevated homocysteine levels and CVD in a wide variety of populations including middle age and elderly men and women with and without traditional risk factors for CVD. ,
PFK exists as a homotetramer in bacteria and mammals (where each monomer possesses 2 similar domains) and as an octomer in yeast (where there are 4 alpha- (PFK1) and 4 beta-chains (PFK2)).
Isopropanol (C3H8O), also known as isopropyl alcohol, is a hydrocarbon prepared from propylene or from the reduction of acetone.
The trees are now cultivated throughout the tropics and sometimes grown as ornamentals in other parts of the world, in particular in southern Florida.
A dideoxynucleoside compound in which the 3'-hydroxy group on the sugar moiety has been replaced by a hydrogen.
Biotin deficiency is rare, as intestinal bacteria generally produce biotin in excess of the body's daily requirements.
Used to combat the symptoms associated with allergies and is sometimes combined with other cold medications designed to provide general relief for flu-like symptoms.
Bwamba virus (BWA) was identified in 1937 during construction work in Bwamba County, Western Uganda.
Such enzymes include proteolytic enzymes like plasmin, the enzyme responsible for fibrinolysis.
Its name is derived from citrullus, the Latin word for watermelon, from which it was first isolated.
There are two main types of this small, lemon-shaped green citrus fruit: the acidic (the chief kinds being Persian Limes and Mexican or Key Limes), which is commercially grown, and the sweet, which is uncommon in North America.
A 77-kDa subcomponent of complement C1, encoded by gene C1S, is a SERINE PROTEASE existing as a proenzyme (homodimer) in the intact complement C1 complex.
The European Black Pine (Pinus nigra) is a moderately variable species of pine, occurring across southern Europe from Spain to the Crimea, and also in Asia Minor, Cyprus, and locally in the Atlas Mountains of northwest Africa.
They have faster electrophoretic mobility and different amino acid substitutions in either the alpha or beta chains than normal adult hemoglobin.
Others of this group however can cause epidemic disease and severe infections such as fulminant meningitis, encephalitis, meningoencephalitis, or viral hemorrhagic fever that can be fatal.
Clostridium botulinum is a gram positive, anaerobic bacterium that produces a potent neurotoxin that binds to presynaptic nerve terminals preventing release of acetylcholine, blocking neurotransmission.
It has been found by organic acid analysis in patients with cyclohexane exposure, either from primary contamination of intravenous solutions or secondary contamination by leaching from the infusion equipment.
The test is not affected by damage to other muscles, so injections, accidents, and drugs that can damage muscle do not affect troponin levels.
The HGFR is a product of the MET gene and is important to oncogenesis and normal cellular function.
It has been studied in combination with bedaquiline and linezolid (BPaL) and bedaquiline, moxifloxacin, and pyrazinamide (BPaMZ).
Adverse reactions, including psychosis, confusion, agitation, tachycardia, myocardial infarction, seizures, and fatal overdoses, are more common with synthetic cannabinoids compared to cannabis.
Genotypes 1, 2 and 4 are associated with widespread outbreaks and are found in Asia and Africa, Mexico and west Africa, and Taiwan and China, respectively.
It is a cell surface glycoprotein and functions as a cell-cell adhesion factor.
Trimeperidine has four structural isomers, of which two are active, the γ isomer trimeperidine, and the β isomer isopromedol.
Alternative splicing of this gene results in two transcript variants encoding different isoforms.
It can be found in Florida, Louisiana, Mississippi, Texas, and other moist gulf coastal states, and along the southern Mississippi River.
Providencia stuartii is a urease-producing gram-negative bacteria in the Enterobacteriaceae family that is often found in water, soil, and animal reservoirs.
The SCCmec cassette-orfX junction (also called the SCCmec cassette right extremity junction region) is a nucleic acid target that specifically identifies methicillin-resistant SA (MRSA).
ZAP-70 is an abbreviation for Zeta-chain-associated protein kinase 70 (70 is the molecular weight in kDa).
Histamine and proteoglycans are pre-stored in the cell's granules whereas the other secreted substances are newly synthesized.
The activated partial thromboplastin time (aPTT) is used to evaluate the functionality of the intrinsic pathway of coagulation.
Probenecid and inhibitors of P-glycoprotein can enhance uptake of morphine-3-glucuronide and, to a lesser extent, morphine-6-glucuronide.
Mutations in this gene are a cause of Kostmann syndrome, also known as severe congenital neutropenia.
Atriplex polycarpa (Allscale, Cattle spinach, Allscale saltbush, Cattle saltbush) is a plant in the Amaranthaceae family.
Coronaviruses are believed to cause a significant percentage of all common colds in human adults.
Soil isolates have been found from forests, grasslands, decaying vegetation, wheat plantings, beet and citrus cultivation, coffee plantations, polluted fresh water, leaf litter of trees, and bark and leaves of citrus.
The OCRL1 gene (oculocerebrorenal syndrome of Lowe) gene is located on chromosome Xq25.
OROV presents as acute febrile illness with symptoms including fever, chills, headaches, myalgia, and joint pain .
Rhinoconjunctivitis and bronchial asthma, alone or in association, represent the most common clinical manifestations of this allergy.
Macrolides are composed of different sized rings of macrocyclic lactone with one or more deoxy sugar or amino sugar residues attached.
EV-G infection is usually asymptomatic and has been identified in the feces of asymptomatic pigs in Asia and Europe and wild boars in Hungary.
Some antidepressants, notably the tricyclics, are commonly used off-label in the treatment of neuropathic pain, whether or not the patient is depressed.
Bone is a dynamic tissue that is constantly being reshaped by osteoblasts, which build bone, and osteoclasts, which resorb bone.
It has been reported in various regions of the United States.
Green peas are the number-one processed vegetable in the UK and the USA.
Ebola is the virus Ebolavirus (EBOV), a viral genus, and the disease Ebola hemorrhagic fever (EHF), a viral hemorrhagic fever (VHF).
Azoles of one NITROGEN and two double bonds that have aromatic chemical properties.
The protein encoded by this gene is a type I membrane protein and is a regulatory part of the complement system.
Other rarely reported fused transcripts include e6a2, e19a2 (p230), e13a3, and e14a3.
Collected cells (harvested by aspiration from the marrow or by therapeutic apheresis from the blood after treatment of the donor with a stem cell mobilizing agent such filgrastim) are processed to concentrate the stem cells.
Information from Laboratory Test Handbook, Jacobs DS, DeMott WR, and Oxley DK, LexiComp, 2001.
It is involved in redox regulation of the cell; it can reduce H(2)O(2) and short chain organic, fatty acid, and phospholipid hydroperoxides.
It is derived from MESODERM and comprised of three zones (outer ZONA GLOMERULOSA, middle ZONA FASCICULATA, and inner ZONA RETICULARIS) with each producing various steroids preferentially, such as ALDOSTERONE; HYDROCORTISONE; DEHYDROEPIANDROSTERONE; and ANDROSTENEDIONE.
An essential amino acid that is physiologically active in the L-form.
Isobutanol (IUPAC nomenclature: 2-methylpropan-1-ol) is an organic compound with the formula (CH3)2CHCH2OH.
Nabumetone is a non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID), the only 1-naphthaleneacetic acid derivative.
Duck is the common name for wild and domestic waterfowl of the family Anatidae, which also includes Geese and Swans.
It has a melting point of 185°C and a boiling point of 235°C.
A consultation note is typically sent to the referring provider when the consultation is completed.
It is a narcotic antagonist that is effective orally, longer lasting and more potent than naloxone, and has been proposed for the treatment of heroin addiction.
It is extremely toxic to aquatic wildlife, bees, birds, freshwater fish and saltwater organisms.
They can interfere with platelet counts when the analysis is performed by electro-optical counters.
An enteral tube is used to deliver fluids and liquid food to patients who are unable to get enough nutrition from food or supplements, or are unable to safely eat or drink.
This gene encodes a phosphoprotein which moves between the nucleus and the cytoplasm.
FAD is a required co-factor in the mechanism in order for the enzyme to bind to its appropriate substrate.
Basophils and mast cells contain granules that stain dark blue to black with Wright-Giemsa.
The two means of generating combinatorial diversity alone could give rise, in theory, to approximately 3.5 × 106 different antibody molecules.
Examples of coinfections are Anaplasmosis, Babesiosis, and Lyme disease, which are all transmitted by blacklegged ticks, and HIV and viral hepatitis B and C, which are all transmitted via direct exposure to the blood of an infected person.
Turbidity value of less than 5 is considered in normal range, 6-12 is considered the "cirrhosis" range, and values of 12-30 are seen in the acute phase of viral hepatitis.
EBV is prevalent worldwide with over 90% of the adult population infected in their lifetime.
The simplest form of perimetry devices uses a white tangent screen and presents different sized pins attached to a black wand, which may be moved, against a black background.
Lactulose is a synthetic, non-digestible sugar used in the treatment of chronic constipation and hepatic encephalopathy, a complication of liver disease.
Zoler M. Adult Lactose Intolerance Is Still Hard to Diagnose - Brief Article - Statistical Data Included.
A low normal to low absolute lymphocyte concentration is associated with increased rates of infection after surgery or trauma.
Chromium is widely distributed in the food supply, but most foods provide only small amounts (less than 2 micrograms per serving).
Alternative splicing of this gene results in multiple transcript variants.
The serum-pericardial effusion albumin gradient is measured to determine the differential diagnosis of large pericardial effusions and to discriminate between exudate and transudate fluid.
Estrone is the least prevalent of the three hormones, estradiol being often more prevalent in normal females whereas estriol is prevalent primarily during pregnancy.
It occurs naturally in the body and is found in certain foods.
Lovage was one of the most common flavours in Roman cooking.
Testing is performed to assist in identification of Gardnerella vaginalis, Campylobacter jejuni, Listeria monocytogenes and group B streptococci.
anti-Lan is IgG and has been associated with transfusion reactions.
The clinical spectrum of HCM is heterogeneous with respect to disease-causing mutations, presentation, prognosis, and treatment strategies.
It is a competitive antagonist at glycine receptors and thus a convulsant.
Despite its wide distribution, the species is considered a rare cause of nosocomial infections and is most commonly associated with post-operative wound and urinary tract infections.
For positive FISH studies, additional fusion probe or RT-PCR testing is needed to identify translocation partners.
The encoded protein is a MAP kinase kinase kinase (MAP3K), which functions downstream of the Ras family of membrane associated GTPases to which it binds directly.
Amylo-alpha-1,6-glucosidase (AGL, is one of the catalytic sites of the glycogen debrancher enzyme, which is encoded by the AGL gene.
Iron overload may also occur when catabolism of red cells occurs.
CBD does not have psychoactive effects but rather has a variety of therapeutic properties including anticonvulsant, analgesic, anti-anxiety, and antiemetic.
Increasing evidence supports a role for an elevation of homocysteine in schizophrenia.
The MFN2 gene (mitofusin 2) is located on chromosome 1p36.22.
However, elevated levels of ALT do not automatically mean that medical problems exist.
Broad- spectrum beta-lactam antibiotic similar in structure to the CEPHALOSPORINS except for the substitution of an oxaazabicyclo moiety for the thiaazabicyclo moiety of certain CEPHALOSPORINS.
Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
A species of mussel in the genus MYTILUS, family MYTILIDAE, class BIVALVIA, known as the common mussel.
Non-antibody proteins secreted by inflammatory leukocytes and some non-leukocytic cells, that act as intercellular mediators.
Within the genus, the two most commonly isolated pathogens in clinical specimens are F. nucleatum (61%) followed by F. necrophorum (25%).
Other common symptoms included body and joint pain and fatigue.
The relative stability of the conjucate base of the acid determines its acidity.
CD11c, also known as Integrin, alpha X (complement component 3 receptor 4 subunit) (ITGAX), is a human gene.
A nonmetallic element of the halogen group that is represented by the atomic symbol I, atomic number 53, and atomic weight of 126.90.
It also exerts part of its actions through depression of hypothalamic centers, like other phenothiazines.
It works by inactivating voltage-gated sodium channels, similar to carbamazepine and oxcarbazepine, and is better tolerated.
Other modes of transmission include contaminated surgical instruments such as castration knives, and needles used repeatedly during vaccination.
It is a common plant in many habitat types, including disturbed areas such as roadsides.
In children, tricyclic antidepressants are used to treat enuresis, obsessive-compulsive disorder, attention deficit hyperactivity disorder, school phobia, and separation anxiety.
Nevertheless, the scale is difficult to recognise if it is not spread out.
Many variations of the GTT have been devised over the years for various purposes, with different standard doses of glucose, different routes of administration, different intervals and durations of sampling, and various substances measured in addition to blood glucose.
Unregulated cell growth can lead to polyp formation in people with juvenile polyposis syndrome.
Mutations in this gene are associated with Ehlers-Danlos syndrome, types I and II.
A decrease in urea nitrogen in the BUN test is indicative of severe liver disease or malnutrition.
As a supplement, NAT is commonly used in place of tyrosine, which is less stable and less soluble in water.
Other animals that harbor T cruzi include raccoons, skunks, and coyotes.
They are less robust in flavour than the Green bean and Red kidney bean, but in some countries they are a staple food.
Coumarin derivative that acts as a long acting oral anticoagulant.
Found on Activated T-cells, B-cells, NK-cells and Monocytes Adult T-cell leukemia/lymphoma Associated with Hairy cell leukemia; some T and B-cell lymphomas, including large cell anaplastic lymphomas; Reed-Sternberg cells
These two features cause the collagen to form in a sheet, the form of the basal lamina.
Giant ragweed is native to eastern North America, and to Colorado and Mexico.
DDT is highly toxic to aquatic wildlife, especially invertebrates and fish.
A high-fiber diet has many benefits which include: 1) helping to maintain bowel health, 2) lowering cholesterol, 3) helping control blood sugar levels, and 4) aiding in achieving healthy weight.
Because Candida species are common contaminants, diagnosis is difficult and requires the elimination of other possible causes.
Host cells are incubated with serial dilutions of a virus-containing specimen, and the percentage of cell death is recorded for each dilution.
Coxiella burnetii exists in two antigenic phases called phase I and phase II.
P notatum is one of the most common species of Penicillium.
Food allergen mix 6 (fx6) contains buckwheat, rice, sesame seed, wheat and corn IgE antibodies.
It is effective against gram-negative bacteria, especially the pseudomonas species.
AFP can be high in up to 70% of patients with primary hepatocellular carcinoma.
Cocaine abuse can lead to sudden death due to cardiotoxicity or the sequential development of hyperthermia, agitated delirium and respiratory arrest.
The products encoded by these genes function in signal transduction pathways.
It is probably the main contributor to the stimulant effect of Catha edulis.
The MEFV gene (Mediterranean fever) is located on chromosome 16p13.3.
Anserine is a dipeptide amino acid metabolite and requires zinc for the normal conversion to Beta-alanine or 1-Methylhistidine in the Beta amino acid pathway.
Food and animal agricultural industries must manage cottonseed meal levels to avoid toxicity.
It is not an obligate human pathogen and has been isolated from domestic animals, insects, soil, and marine environments.
The membrane-associated protein encoded by this gene is a member of the superfamily of ATP-binding cassette (ABC) transporters.
Anti-NMDAR IgG antibodies are found in a subset of patients with autoimmune limbic encephalitis, which progresses from symptoms such as psychosis, memory deficits, seizures, and language disintegration into a state of unresponsiveness with catatonic features and breathing instability.
Mutations in this gene are associated with mitochondrial complex III deficiency and the GRACILE syndrome.
It is formed by hydrolysis of phosphatidylcholine by the enzyme phospholipase A2, as part of the de-acylation/re-acylation cycle that controls its overall molecular species composition.
Insufficient intake of trace minerals can cause symptoms of nutritional deficiency.
Peanut allergic reactions are more likely to be severe or even fatal than reactions to other food allergens.
The removal of fibrinopeptides B is not required for coagulation.
Anileridine (trade name: Leritine) is a new synthetic analgesic drug and is a member of the piperidine class of analgesic agents It differs from meperidine (Demerol) in that the N-methyl group of meperidine is replaced by an N-aminophenethyl group, which increase its analgesic activity.
First identified in 1995 in ticks from Japan, B. miyamotoi has since been detected in two species of North American ticks, the black-legged or "deer" tick (Ixodes scapularis) and the western black-legged tick (Ixodes pacificus).
Solutions of electrolytes thus conduct an electric current and can be decomposed by it (ELECTROLYSIS).
Associations of Tregs with disease has prompted investigations into the manipulation of Tregs for therapeutic purposes.
Tg is an established tumor marker used in the diagnosis of differentiated thyroid carcinoma.
Pigs with PMWS have weakness, difficulty breathing, enlarged lymphnodes, diarrhea, and yellowing of the skin.
Alternate splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms.
Although genetically independent of the Rh system, the Landsteiner Wiener (LW) blood group antigen system is part of the Rh protein cluster and is expressed more strongly on D positive cells.
Bartonella quintana is a slim, fastidious coccobacillus spread through body lice.
Also, the region of the N gene between nucleotides 478 and 548 is identical for all genotype A vaccine strains that have been analyzed, and PCR-based assays have been developed based on that region so that genotype A vaccine strains can be identified without having to sequence the entire gene.
It is native to a wide area of the Northern Hemisphere from easternmost Europe across central and eastern Asia to India, western North America, and south to northern Mexico.
HPV infection is a necessary factor in the development of nearly all cases of cervical cancer (Walboomers 1999).
The sperm motility index (SMI) is determined by an automated, method that reflects the concentration of motile sperm and the intensity of their motility.
An iron-containing protein complex that is formed by a combination of ferric iron with the protein apoferritin .
3-Methylcrotonyl-CoA carboxylase (3-MCC) deficiency is an inherited disorder characterized by inadequate levels of an enzyme that helps break down the amino acid leucine.
The PPT1 gene (palmitoyl-protein thioesterase 1) is located on chromosome 1p32.
Hemosiderin is composed of iron oxide and can accumulate in different organs in various diseases.
Aggregate reticulocytes are less mature and mature into punctate over the course of about 36 hours.
However, the excretion of certain acyl glycines is increased in several inborn errors of metabolism.
It is most commonly found from Alberta east to Manitoba and south across the Rocky Mountains, Great Plains, and Midwest states to Mexico.
HLA-B27 bears a strong association with ankylosing spondylitits (Marie-Strumpell disease), more than 90% of patients express this antigen.
This particular test is not suitable for the evaluation of patients suspected of having congenital glycosylation disorders.
Individuals who are homozygous for a -33T→C SNP in the erythroid promoter region of the FYB allele have the phenotype Fy(a-b-) and do not express Duffy antigens on their RBCs.
Clusterin (apolipoprotein J) is a 75 - 80 kDa disulfide-linked heterodimeric protein associated with the clearance of cellular debris and apoptosis.
PS sold now is made from plants instead of animals.
From menarche to menopause the primary estrogen is estradiol 17beta.
Phosphorus is a mineral that makes up one percent of a person's total body weight.
Macroprolactin is a physiologically inactive form of prolactin found in a small proportion of people.
Nuts, such as walnuts, are good sources of alpha-linolenic acid.
The Diagnostic Imaging Report (DIR) is a document from the consulting imaging data specialist to the ordering or referring clinician that interprets the image data.
Barley pollen g201 should be differentiated from Barley the food, f6.
The vaccine is recommended by the U.S. Department of Defense for military recruits entering basic training in order to prevent acute respiratory disease.
The anterior-inferior angle between the Frankfort Horizontal plane and the Sella-Gnathion line
The etiology has been confirmed with skin prick testing, specific IgE and challenge tests (1-3).
Levels of methadone itself are variable and depend on a patient's urine pH value, dose given, and metabolism.
It is an edible plant and is thought to have some use for topical wound healing.
B cell-activating factor (BAFF) is an immunomodulatory cytokine that advances the survival of B cells, the class switch recombination of heavy-chains, and can also activate T-cells.
Hypersensitivity to cereals may occur via inhalation or ingestion, but reported allergy to Foxtail millet is rare.
It can identify genetic aberrations that include trisomy 13, trisomy 18 and trisomy 21.
This genus of the family Cichlidae (CICHLIDS) inhabits Central and South America (one species extends north into Texas), West Indies, Africa, Madagascar, Syria, and coastal India.
Several EKG-based criteria exist for measuring left ventricular hypertrophy (LVH).
L. monocytogenes most commonly infects immunocompromised persons, the elderly and pregnant women.
It is used as a rubber polymerization activator and retardant.
This gene encodes a transmembrane proteolipid protein that is the predominant myelin protein present in the central nervous system.
That being said they are not as broad-brushed as clades, but are expected to correspond to outbreaks.
Enterococcus faecalis and faecium are Gram-positive commensal bacteria of the gastrointestinal tract.
Recently, human leptospirosis cases due to the Kremastos serovar have increased, though there are still fewer than ten reported cases per year.
The strawberry (Fragaria) is a genus of plants in the family Rosaceae, and the fruit of these plants.
This PTP contains an extracellular domain, a single transmembrane segment and two tandem intracytoplasmic catalytic domains, and thus belongs to receptor type PTP.
The H antigen is a carbohydrate on the RBC surface which is the biosynthetic precursor required for the expression of the A and B antigens.
In organic chemistry, a phosphate, or organophosphate, is an ester of phosphoric acid.
Cymbopogon citratus, aka lemon grass, is a plant whose oils have shown to have some usefulness as both an antifungal treatment and an antiflammatory one.
The bulk of the range of the European Black Pine is in Turkey.
RDW has also been shown to be significantly increased in pregnant women during gestational week 34 through labor onset.
The element occurs in numerous minerals with the main sources being rutile and ilmenite, which are widely distributed over the Earth.
Few have been found to decrease catalytic activity with certain ligands, including testosterone and nifedipine, in comparison to wild-type metabolism.
Inactivating CASR mutations result in various forms of hyperparathyroidism and hypercalcemia, while activating mutations lead to hypoparathyroidism and hypocalcemia.
Hypoaldosteronism can occur in any condition that causes destruction or dysfunction of the adrenal gland.1,2,4 Hypoaldosterism can be due to primary adrenal insufficiency, congenital adrenal hypoplasia, acquired secondary aldosterone deficiency (hyporeninemic hypoaldosteronism), and acquired Hyporeninemic hypoaldosteronism is the most common form of isolated hypoaldosteronism and is results from impaired renin release from the kidney.
To capture the standardized data about a drug (other than the bulk ingredient API) that is in an interim stage of manufacture, processing, preparation, or packaging, and not ready for human or animal use.
A long-acting, non-sedative antihistaminic used in the treatment of seasonal allergic rhinitis, asthma, allergic conjunctivitis, and chronic idiopathic urticaria.
Nervonic acid has been identified as important in the biosynthesis of nerve cell myelin.
Cefazolin, also known as cefazoline or cephazolin, is a first generation cephalosporin antibiotic.
Silica is most commonly found in nature as sand or quartz, as well as in the cell walls of diatoms.
Mutations in RREB1, CDKN2A, and D8Z2 genes are associated with malignant melanocytic lesions arising in the skin.
This is a low-lying shrub of the southwestern United States and northern Mexico, where it grows in sandy, often salty, distinctly alkaline soils, such as desert washes and saline dry lakebeds.
Patients infected by these two fungi may have very similar clinical presentations, making identification important for patient care.
Blood Glucose Monitoring: target range, times to check blood glucose, if student can do checks self, type of blood glucose monitor, 6.
Protein glycosylation naturally occurs in two ways, either through an N-linkage to the amide group of asparagine or an O-linkage to the hydroxyl group of serine or threonine.
An enzyme that, in the course of purine ribonucleotide biosynthesis, catalyzes the conversion of 5'-phosphoribosyl-4-(N-succinocarboxamide)-5-aminoimidazole to 5'-phosphoribosyl-4-carboxamide-5-aminoimidazole and the conversion of adenylosuccinic acid to AMP. .
More than 60 mutations in the BMPR1A gene have been found to cause juvenile polyposis syndrome.
This is fundamental for the leeches' alimentary habit of hematophagy, since it keeps the blood flowing after the initial phlebotomy performed by the worm on the host's skin.
Clinical severity can be highly variable, manifested as bleeding of the CNS GI, GU, skin, or umbilical cord neonatally.
Staphylococcus epidermidis, a coagulase negative staphylococcus (CoNS), has been historically viewed as an innocuous commensal organism of human skin.
A glycoprotein secreted by the cells of the gastric glands that is required for the absorption of VITAMIN B 12.
High tyrosine foods include cheese, soybeans, beef, lamb, pork, fish, chicken, nuts, seeds, eggs, dairy, beans, and whole grains.
The architectural pattern of ductal carcinoma in situ (DCIS) describes the growth pattern of the tumor as seen by light microscopy.
Butylparaben is an extremely weak basic (essentially neutral) compound (based on its pKa).
It has strong immunosuppressive properties and is commonly used to prevent allograft rejection in transplant recipients.
Its melting point is the highest among this series of isomers, but simple crystallization does not allow easy purification due to the formation of eutectic mixtures.
American Beech is a tall deciduous tree usually growing 20-25 m tall, although trees up to 40 m have been recorded.
ABC genes are divided into seven distinct subfamilies (ABC1, MDR/TAP, MRP, ALD, OABP, GCN20, White).
One of the benefits of the Omega-3 fatty acids for patients with inflammatory disease is believed to be their selective modification of the metabolism of AA by the omega-3 fatty acids that results in a reduced amount of inflammation.
T cells with TCR gamma delta show less TCR diversity compared to TCR alpha beta and are more common at epithelial surfaces.
Cutaneous Leishmaniasis develops at the site of a sand fly bite.
The term may refer to any of three structural isomers, or to a mixture of them: in the IUPAC nomenclature, however, pentane means exclusively the n-pentane isomer; the other two being called "methylbutane" and "dimethylpropane".
It has a sweet taste, but is poisonous if ingested.
Polychromasia occurs because of presence of young erythrocytes (often a response to anemia).
Micronutrients are dietary components, often referred to as vitamins and minerals, which although only required by the body in small amounts, are vital to development, disease prevention, and well-being.
Hev b 9 is an enolase, an ubiquitous enzyme involved in the carbohydrate catabolism pathway.
Microscopically they appear much like a hemoglobin cast, but they are dark red to brown because of the myoglobin pigment.
It has been shown to be effective in the treatment of OSTEOARTHRITIS; RHEUMATOID ARTHRITIS; ankylosing SPONDYLITIS; and in the alleviation of postoperative pain (PAIN, POSTOPERATIVE).
They represent a significant sensitization risk also for less atopic individuals due to their often high concentration in the air.
One method used to detect acetyl norfentanyl is solid phase extraction followed by liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrophotometry.
Thyroxine is separated from thyroglobulin by proteolysis and released in the blood.
This encoded protein is a cell surface glycoprotein that is known to complex with integrins.
1. Antibodies against GD1a/GD1b and GD1b/GT1b complexes have been found in patients with more severe GBS requiring mechanical ventilation; 2. Antibodies against GM1 or those against GalNAc-GD1a have been associated with acute motor axonal neuropathy; 3. Anti-GQ1b antibodies are specifically associated with a variant of GBS called Fisher syndrome, which is characterized by ophthalmoplegia and ataxia.
Quetiapine is used to treat bipolar disorder, depression, and schizophrenia, and is primarily metabolized in the liver.
Whole chromosome painting probes are collections of smaller probes that bind to a different sequence along the length of a given chromosome.
Hydrocodone or dihydrocodeinone (marketed as Vicodin, Anexsia, Dicodid, Hycodan, Hycomine, Lorcet, Lortab, Norco, Novahistex, Hydroco, Tussionex, Vicoprofen) is a semi-synthetic opioid derived from two of the naturally occurring opiates, codeine and thebaine.
An element with atomic symbol O, atomic number 8, and atomic weight 16.
It is the number of cells containing visible chromosomes divided by the total number of cells in the field of view.
Yersinia sp are Gram-negative oval or rod-shaped bacteria of the family Enterobacteriaceae.
ROCV infection presents as fever, malaise, severe headache, lower extremity weakness, and severe neurologic symptoms including encephalitis.
It was developed by the Thrombolysis In Myocardial Infarction (TIMI) study group.
White willow bark is used in traditional medicine for pain relief.
It is native to parts of western Europe (Belgium, France, Germany, the Netherlands, northern Italy, and northern Spain).
Vitamin B12 is generally not present in plant foods, but fortified breakfast cereals are a source of vitamin B12 with high bioavailability for vegetarians.
Human coronavirus (HCoV-NL63) was first identified in 2004 in a Dutch seven-month old infant with respiratory illness, but is now present world wide.
Rat allergens found in dust, urine, epithelium and saliva are a frequent cause of asthma, allergic rhinitis and allergic conjunctivitis, mainly in laboratory workers but also in ordinary individuals.
HPV type 16 and 18 are the most common carcinogenic HPV types.
They have a half-life of about 4 days and are can detect lower levels of alcohol consumption compared to other biomarkers such as carbohydrate deficient transferrin.
Secondary hyperaldosteronism is relatively common and can occur as the result of any condition that decreases blood flow to the kidneys (ie, renal artery stenosis), decreases blood pressure, or lowers plasma sodium levels.
Besifloxacin has been found to inhibit production of pro-inflammatory cytokines in vitro.
Without a qualifier, the term ejection fraction refers specifically to that of the left ventricle.
Lettuce may induce symptoms of food allergy, in particular oral allergy syndrome, in sensitised individuals.
It is being studied for various clinical indications and in some cases it offers an alternative to warfarin as the preferred orally administered anticoagulant ("blood thinner") since it does not require frequent blood tests for international normalized ratio (INR) monitoring while offering similar results in terms of efficacy.
Forms of CDT include the tri-sialo form, with three instead of four sialic residues, and di-sialo, with two sialic acid residues.
The genomic sequences of 3 United States isolates were determined and found to be 7,266 nucleotides (nt) in length.
Lavandula angustifolia (also Lavandula spica or Lavandula vera; common lavender, true lavender, narrow-leaved lavender or English lavender (though not native to England); formerly L. officinalis) is a flowering plant in the family Lamiaceae, native to the western Mediterranean region, primarily in the Pyrenees and other mountains in northern Spain.
Ciprofloxacin is the generic international name for the synthetic antibiotic manufactured and sold by Bayer Pharmaceutical under the brand names Cipro® and Ciproxin®.
Asparagine (abbreviated ASN or N) is one of the 20 most common and yet non-essential amino acid.
Blue vetch is found in Eurasia, North America, temperate South America and East Africa.
FGF-19 is fully active in the presence of a cofactor - beta-Klotho protein.
Transthyretin (TTR) is a serum and cerebrospinal fluid carrier of the thyroid hormone thyroxine (T4) and retinol binding protein bound to retinol.
It is expressed by a variety of normal and neoplastic neuroendocrine cells and is therefore used as an immunocytochemical marker for neuroendocrine differentiation in various tumors.
Mutations in this gene result in incontinentia pigmenti, hypohidrotic ectodermal dysplasia, and several other types of immunodeficiencies.
Seven subtypes (sometimes called antigenic types, or strains) exist, each producing a different botulinum toxin (BOTULINUM TOXINS).
It is widely grown in the warmer, moister mountainous regions of the world.
Cache Valley virus (CVV), a mosquito-borne member of the Bunyamwera serogroup, family Bunyaviridae, genus Orthobunyavirus, is geographically widespread in North America, where it circulates between mosquitoes and mammals.
It plays a role in cholesterol and fatty acid metabolism.
Phenobarbital is an antiepileptic drug first introduced for clinical use in 1912.
The West Nile Virus (WNV) is an arbovirus that was first identified in the West Nile District of Uganda in 1937.
Phenylketonuria (also called PKU), is a rare inherited disorder that causes phenylalanine to build up in the body.
The edulis part of the Latin name is a reference to the fact that it produces edible shoots.
This same mutation is also found in more than half of patients with IgM monoclonal gammopathy of undetermined significance (IgM-MGUS) as well as some patients with diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL) and marginal zone lymphoma.
Occupational allergy may also commonly be associated with exposure to Hops.
Genotype and metabolic activity for CYP3A4 and CYP3A5 should therefore be considered together when assessing possible effects on drug response.
Individuals with a CYP3A5*1 allele may show more rapid than average metabolism of CYP3A substrates.
The gene is highly polymorphic (as are other HLA genes), and allele type can correlate with various diseases (such as celiac).
The major principle of dietary treatment is to reduce the production of glutaric acid and 3-hydroxyglutaric acid by restriction of natural protein in general and of lysine in particular. ,
The preferred substrate of this enzyme is bilirubin, although it also has moderate activity with simple phenols, flavones, and C18 steroids.
The encoded protein is believed to be an integral membrane protein involved in small molecule transport, specifically tyrosine, which is a precursor to melanin synthesis.
Gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) is an inhibitory neurotransmitter found in the nervous systems of widely divergent species.
Acacia is a genus of shrubs and trees belonging to the subfamily Mimosoideae of the family Fabaceae.
The fruit matures in autumn, and is typically 5-9 cm diameter (rarely up to 15 cm).
Urinary modified nucleosides, including pseudouridine, are found to be elevated in patients with oncogenic diseases and hepatitis .
Neonates can become infected with H influenza by aspirating amniotic fluid or through contact with genital tract secretions.
The genus has a wide distribution, including Africa, Asia, Europe, North America and South America, and missing only from Australasia
Sperm cells contribute half of the genetic information to the diploid offspring and the other hallf is contributed by the female ovum.
Transcripts for this gene undergo alternative splicing that results in many tissue-specific isoforms, however, the full-length nature of some of these variants has not yet been determined.
Pentan-2-one or methyl propyl ketone is a colorless liquid ketone with an odor resembling that of acetone.
The fusion of promyelocytic leukemia (PML, chromosome 15q24.1) and retinoic acid receptor alpha (RARA, chromosome 17q21.1) genes occurs due to a chromosomal translocation.
(Hev b) 2 is 35 kilodaltons and is a 1,3 glucanase enzyme that acts as a defense for the plant.
Acrylates easily form polymers because the double bonds are very reactive.
Methyl-transferase enzymes require Vitamin B12 and folate, so deficiencies in these may lead to decreased 1-Methylhistidine and histidine levels.
The LITAF gene (lipopolysaccharide-induced TNF factor) is located on chromosome 16p13.13.
Levels of phenyllactate are normally very low in blood or urine.
When activated, the encoded protein is known to inhibit CDC25C phosphatase, preventing entry into mitosis, and has been shown to stabilize the tumor suppressor protein p53, leading to cell cycle arrest in G1.
ERAV contains a single serotype, equine rhinitis A virus 1 (ERAV-1, formerly known as equine rhinovirus 1).
CCL18 is approximately 60% identical in amino acid sequence to CCL3.
NPY has been associated with a number of physiologic processes in the brain, including the regulation of energy balance, memory and learning, and epilepsy.
Amplification is determined based on the MDM2 gene copy number and MDM2 to centromere ratio (CEP12).
Individuals who are homozygous for a -33T→C SNP in the erythroid promoter region of the FYB allele have the phenotype Fy(a-b-) and do not express Duffy antigens on their RBCs.
Pregnancy-associated plasma protein A (PAPP-A), an important pregnancy protein is a major biochemical marker of Down syndrome in the first trimester of pregnancy.
It regulates the differentiation and development of melanocytes retinal pigment epithelium and is also responsible for pigment cell-specific transcription of the melanogenesis enzyme genes.
3-Hydroxybutyrylcarnitine is a primary marker for Short-chain L-3-hydroxy acyl-CoA dehydrogenase deficiency.
Skin lesions are characterized by the presence of circular patches of hair loss that are surrounded by a raised, red outer rim.
In addition to causing some cases of abortion in cattle and sheep, C. fetus is an opportunistic human pathogen and can cause bacteremia and thrombophlebitis.
This item is used for reporting tabulated ethnicity detail data by the Centers for Disease Control (CDC), National Center for Health Statistics (NCHS).
Hemolytic-uremic syndrome complicates 6-9 percent of STEC infections overall and about 15 percent of STEC infections in children under age 10.
Serovars 1, 3, 6 and 14 are now part of species U. parvum based on their slightly smaller genome size.
The European ash (Fraxinus excelsior) is native to most of Europe, with the exception of northern Scandinavia and the southern Mediterranean.
It has relatively strong sedative effects, to the extent that its primary use was as a medication for insomnia rather than for its antihistamine action.
The NPHS1 gene (nephrosis 1, congenital, Finnish type (nephrin)) is located on chromosome 19q13.1.
This product may be used in patients with antibodies to IgA or IgE immunoglobulins or thalassemic patients.
GLA mutations cause Fabry disease, an X-linked disorder characterized by progressive renal failure, cardiac disease, cerebrovascular disease, small-fiber peripheral neuropathy, and skin lesions.
Norquetiapine partially activates the 5-HT1A receptors which, with the NET, is thought to have antidepressant responses in the patient.
This gene encodes the RNA component of mitochondrial RNA processing endoribonuclease, which cleaves mitochondrial RNA at a priming site of mitochondrial DNA replication.
There are two theories as to the origin of A. oryzae.
In addition, pregnenolone sulfate is a source for steroid synthesis pathways and modulates the impact on ion channels.
Loading occurs in the lung where the pO2 is high, and unloading occurs in tissues according to the hemoglobin saturation curve.
Basophils are granular white blood cells characterized by a pale-staining nucleus with 2 to 3 lobes and a cytoplasm containing coarse, dark-staining granules of variable size.
Cytochrome P450 1A2 (CYP1A2)-mediated drug metabolism is highly variable and often based on a patient's genotype.
They are spirochetes that differ in length, diameter, coil regularity and tightness, and number of periplasmic flagella.
P system antigens are formed by the addition of carbohydrates to the fatty acid chain of sphingolipids.
A biotin-dependent enzyme belonging to the ligase family that catalyzes the addition of CARBON DIOXIDE to pyruvate.
Antibody investigation should be performed using serum samples from the acute and convalescent stage.
Testing for antibodies to MBP alone (without the recombinant allergen) can serve as a negative control to make sure that antibody response to the MBP-allergen molecule is in response to the allergen part of the molecule, and not the MBP.
Sphingomyelin can accumulate in a rare hereditary disease called Niemann-Pick Disease, types A and B.
delta-Tocopherol is one of the chemical compounds that is considered vitamin E. As a food additive, it has E number E309.
The drug is typically sprayed on botanical material and smoked, although it can be ingested in liquid or powder form.
cause disease on many grain crops, especially maize, and synthesize mycotoxins including aflatoxin.
Leptin provides the key afferent signal from fat cells in the feedback system that controls body fat stores.
Its three letter code is ILE and its one letter code is I. Isoleucine has two chiral centers; therefore there are four possible stereoisomers of isoleucine and two possible diastereomers of L-isoleucine.
Streptococcus pyogenes is an important cause of pharyngitis as well as more severe infections, including sepsis and toxic shock syndrome.
Dopamine, a chemical naturally produced in the body, functions in the brain as a neurotransmitter, activating dopamine receptors.
Gene testing to determine the type(s) of carbapenemase resistance present helps with determining an appropriate treatment plan.
Apoliprotein B is a primary protein component of low-density lipoprotein (LDL or "bad" cholesterol), very low-density lipoprotein (VLDL) and chylomicrons and is encoded by the APOB gene.
The GJB3 gene (gap junction protein, beta 3, 31kDa) is located on chromosome 1p34.
The oxidation products of cholesterol, particularly cholestane-3beta,5alpha,6beta-triol and 7-ketocholesterol, have proven to be sensitive and specific biomarkers for early detection of Niemann Pick type C (NPC) disease.
Stercobilin (and related urobilin) can be used as a marker for biochemical identification of fecal pollution levels in rivers.
IL-7 is a cytokine important for B and T cell development.
B. quintana is present across the globe and is most commonly found in impoverished, crowded and unhygienic conditions such as refugee or homeless camps..
There has been a large increase in the proportion of meningococcal disease caused by N. meningitidis serogroup Y since 1989.
2-Hexanol has a chiral center and can be resolved into enantiomers.
Transcript variants for this gene have been described; however, it has not been resolved whether these transcripts are in fact produced by this gene or by a closely related pseudogene, CYP2B7.
The gallotannins are a class of hydrolysable tannins polymers formed when gallic acid, a polyphenol monomer, esterifies and binds with the hydroxyl group of a polyol carbohydrate such as glucose.
Major histocompatibility complex, class II, DP alpha 1, also known as HLA-DPA1, is a human gene.
Hydroxyproline differs from proline by the presence of a hydroxyl (OH) group attached to the C (gamma) atom.
An overdose is marked by confusion, fever, peripheral numbness and weakness, reduced coordination and muscle control, slurred speech, reduced heartbeat.
Unlike other resource intensive typing methods, MLVA is a high throughput low cost method that aids in the study of the routes and rates of SA transmission.
There are groups of rotavirus, A through H. Groups A, B, C, and H are associated with an acute gastroenteritis and are found in humans and animals.
Imatinib mesylate (imatinib) is the first-line therapy for patients with abnormalities of PDGFRA, whereas patients with FGFR1 fusions are resistant to this therapy and carry a poor prognosis.
It is found in coastal waters of the northeast Atlantic, from the Barents Sea to the Strait of Gibraltar, the Mediterranean and the Black Sea.
Toxigenic strains of the organisim carry the genes encoding the toxins while non-toxigenic strains do not carry the toxin genes.
Heparin occurs in and is obtained from liver, lung, mast cells, etc., of vertebrates.
Three cytoplasmic isozymes have been identified in human tissues: the MM type from skeletal muscle, the MB type from myocardial tissue and the BB type from nervous tissue and mitochondrial isoenzyme.
It inhibits the production of beta-1,3-glucan, an essential component of fungal cell walls.
People infected with B. melitensis can suffer serious complications, including infection and inflammation of the bones and joints, and occasionally, the heart and brain.
MSI analysis may help guide therapy and be a prognostic indicator.
DQ6.2 and is common from Central Asia into Western Europe, *0602 is also linked to DQA1*0103 in parts of Asia.
When larger or smaller HPFs are used, the cutoffs for the number of mitoses corresponding to a specific score are adjusted according to published guidelines.
Accumulation of mast cells in peripheral tissue is associated with a mast cell activation disease (MCAD), including systemic mastocytosis (SM).
The deficiency of the enzyme leads to accumulation of various products that may lead to Fabry's disease, which is lysosomal storage disorder.
Asthma, allergic rhinitis, allergic conjunctivitis and contact urticaria may occur following contact with pollen from this tree.
Inhaling n-hexane causes nerve damage and paralysis of the arms and legs.
Bladder cells line the inside of the bladder and are the most common origin of bladder cancer.
N-tau methylimidazoleacetate (N-tau MIAA) is the primary urinary metabolite of histamine.
The SLC12A3 gene (solute carrier family 12 member 3) is located on chromosome 16q13.
The antioxidant versus pro-oxidant effects may depend on the biologic characteristics of different nanoceria, including method of synthesis and particle size; research in these areas is ongoing.
Raspberry may rarely induce symptoms of food allergy in sensitised individuals.
The eye drop was approved by the United States Food and Drug Administration (FDA) on May 29, 2009 and marketed under the trade name Besivance.
Anti-fibrillarin antibody (AFA), also known as anti-U3-RNP, is an antibody to a nucleolar ribonucleoprotein called fibrillarin, which marks the site of formation of the nucleolus in cells that are dividing.
This depolarizes the β cells and causes voltage-gated calcium channels to open.
For a group of cells that rarely complete the cell cycle, we expect a high proportion of cells to be in the resting stage of the cell cycle (G1).
This timber is also known as Abachi, under the Nigerian name obeche, the Ghana name wawa, the Cameroon name ayous and Ivory Coast name samba.
A non-depolarizing neuromuscular blocking agent with short duration of action.
Retinol is the alcohol form of Vitamin A. Humans are unable to naturally synthesize retinol, so it must be obtained through digestion of retinol-rich foods.
Its thorax is dark and shiny, unlike the light rimmed pattern of the American cockroach.
A polymorphism of methylenetetrahydrofolate reductase (C677T), which is quite common in most populations with a homozygosity rate of 10-15 %, is associated with moderate hyperhomocysteinemia, especially in the context of marginal folate intake.
It was approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) in December 1997.
Populus species are entirely wind pollinated, as distinct from Willows, which are primarily insect-pollinated.
A peptide hormone of about 27 amino acids from the duodenal mucosa that activates pancreatic secretion and lowers the blood sugar level.
When used in a 5 to 1 ratio with the antibiotic Ormetoprim, the combination increases the strength of Sulfadimethoxine's properties of fighting infection and reduces the resistance rate the bacteria might have against the antibiotic by blocking the bacteria's metabolism of folic acid, depriving the bacteria of folate coenzymes.
Matrix metalloproteinase-2 (MMP-2), a.k.a 72 kDa type IV collagenase or gelatinase A, is an enzyme that in humans is encoded by the MMP2 gene.
Coliform bacteria are defined as rod-shaped gram-negative organisms which ferment lactose with the production of gas when incubated at 35 °C.
The interRAI Palliative Care (PC) Assessment System was developed to provide a comprehensive assessment of the strengths, preferences, and needs of adults in both hospice and palliative care.
After health-care professionals and drug-enforcement officials became aware of this scenario, the narcotic-antagonist naloxone was added to preparations containing pentazocine, and the reported incidence of its abuse has declined precipitously since.
The A and a' waves follow the E (LOINC component: blood flow velocity.
The human leukocyte antigen system (sometimes human lymphocyte antigen) (HLA) is the general name of a group of genes in the human major histocompatibility complex (MHC) region on human chromosome 6 (mouse chromosome 17) that encodes the cell-surface antigen -presenting proteins.
DPD is released into circulation during bone resorption and is excreted unmetabolized into urine.
Failure to produce or secrete digestive enzymes can lead to failure digesting or breaking down specific components of ingested food.
Aviadenovirus are viruses that affect birds; they represent one of four genera of the family Adenoviridae, the others being Mastadenovirus, Atadenovirus and Siadenovirus.
It is commonly marketed under various trade names, including Marcain, Marcaine (CareStream Dental), Sensorcaine (Astra Zeneca) and Vivacaine (Septodont).
Sparfloxacin (spar FLOX a sin), trade names Zagam and Zagam Respipac, is a fluoroquinolone antibiotic used in the treatment of bacterial infections.
There is no substantial evidence to indicate that aldicarb is teratogenic, mutagenic, carcinogenic, or immunotoxic.
Fenethylline, also spelled phenethylline, is a synthetic prodrug used as a stimulant and marketed under the brand name Captagon.
Coagulation factor XIII strongly affects fibrin clot structure and function.
Mutations in this gene cause glycogen storage disease type I (GSD1).
Percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI), also known as coronary angioplasty, is a procedure that restores blood flow to the heart.
Four species infect humans (although occasional infections with primate malarias may occur).
Gal d 2, also known as Ovalbumin and Albumin, is a 44 kDa phosphoglycoprotein.
The RefSeq Project has decided to create four representative RefSeq records.
It is also effective against certain sexually transmitted infectious diseases, such as non-gonococcal urethritis and cervicitis.
An individual's humoral and cellular anti-KLH response is indicative for their immunocompetence (Grant et al. 2008,.
Methicillin resistance in S. aureus is primarily mediated by the mecA gene which is carried on a mobile genetic element called the staphylococcal cassette chromosome mec (SCCmec), which integrates at an open reading frame in the S. aureus genome known as orfX.
Low density lipoprotein-related protein 1 (alpha-2-macroglobulin receptor), also known as LRP1 or CD91, is a protein forming a receptor found in the plasma membrane of human cells involved in receptor-mediated endocytosis.
Latex recombinant rHev b 10 is a cross-reactive allergen of latex.
Rabies virus (RV), is an enveloped, single-stranded, negative sense RNA virus and a member of the Rhabdoviridae family.
Specific IgE antibodies to Der p 1 and Der p 2 indicates that the patient is a suitable candidate for SIT to house dust mite.
TNFRS1A protein is one of the major receptors for the tumor necrosis factor-alpha.
It is usually synthesized outside of an organism and it must be introduced into an organism to trigger its effect.
As oat flour or oatmeal, they are also used in a variety of other baked goods and cold cereals, and as an ingredient in muesli and granola.
Cytochrome c oxidase (COX) catalyzes the transfer of electrons from cytochrome c to molecular oxygen, which helps to maintain the proton gradient across the inner mitochondrial membrane that is necessary for aerobic ATP production.
Most third-party payers, including Medicare, require use of ICD CM codes to report diagnoses on insurance claim forms.
Pyrazole refers both to the class of simple aromatic ring organic compounds of the heterocyclic series characterized by a 5-membered ring structure composed of three carbon atoms and two nitrogen atoms in adjacent positions, and to the unsubstituted parent compound
Tregs suppress immune-mediated inflammation that is associated with autoimmune and auto-inflammatory disorders, allergies, acute and chronic infections, and cancer.
It is effective against gram-positive, gram-negative and anaerobic bacteria, except for Pseudomonas aeruginosa.
Mutations that result in the constitutive activation of this receptor result in acute myeloid leukemia and acute lymphoblastic leukemia.
It is rapidly taken up by dopaminergic neurons and converted to DOPAMINE.
As liquefaction continues, the semen becomes more homogeneous and quite watery, and in the final stages only small areas of coagulation remain.
DHCA has been detected in human plasma following coffee ingestion, and is increased with some dietary sources, such as after ingestion of phenolic constituents of artichoke leaf extract.
MAG is the least common and contributes less than 1% of the total acylglycerol content of cottomseed and olive oils.
Benzopyrene, C20H12, is a five-ring polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbon whose metabolites are mutagenic and highly carcinogenic.
Several of these transcripts are predicted to encode truncated products which lack the TM and may be secreted.
The malformation of the normal prion proteins occurs when they are exposed to the mal-formed version of the protein.
It is generated when C3b is inactivated (iC3b) and its alpha chain is cleaved by COMPLEMENT FACTOR I into C3c, and C3dg (955-1303) in the presence COMPLEMENT FACTOR H. Serum proteases further degrade C3dg into C3d (1002-1303) and C3g (955-1001).
Mutations in SOX10 are the cause of peripheral demyelinating neuropathy, central dysmyelinating leukodystrophy, Waardenburg syndrome, Waardenburg-Shah syndrome and Hirschsprung disease, also called neurologic variant of Waardenburg-Shah syndrome.
The health risk associated with the disease is usually confined to adult foreigners visiting endemic regions and acquiring the infection: this is why C. cayetanensis has been labeled as causing "traveler's diarrhea.
Similar to Asp f 1, sensitisation may vary depending on the underlying disease: in a study of 25 patients with ABPA, 96% had IgE antibodies directed against Asp f 2, whereas none of the normal control subjects, or the subjects with allergic asthma who had positive results on the skin-prick test, had a reaction.
(CAI values are typically categorized as 5-15/hr = Mild; 15-30/hr = Moderate; and > 30/h = Severe.)
They may increase the risk of developing Ebstein's cardiac anomaly in infants born to women who take lithium during the first trimester of pregnancy.
5-Hydroxyhexanoic acid (also known as 5-Hydroxycaproic acid) is a normal dicarboxylic acid degradation product of fatty acids; however, it has been found in patients with non-ketotic dicarboxylic aciduria and one patient on a diet containing excessive amounts of medium-chain triglycerides.
The HP gene encodes a preproprotein, which yields both alpha and beta chains, which subsequently combine as a tetramer to produce haptoglobin.
Famciclovir is a prodrug of penciclovir with improved oral bioavailability.
This substance has been found in at least 570 of the 1,585 National Priorities List sites identified by the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA).
The AZFa region is found within Yq11.21, AZFb and AZFc more distally within Yq11.22, 23.
Because it accumulates with renal dysfunction and deposits in tissues, β2-M is a cause of dialysis related amyloidosis.
Testing for LE is a routine part of the urine dip stick, and helps to diagnose urinary tract infections.
HLA-B belongs to the HLA class I heavy chain paralogues.
For patients with IBD, commitment to long-term therapy is necessary to reduce the occurrence of incapacitating flare ups in the short term and the development of colon cancer in the long term.
Information from Tietz Clinical Guide to Laboratory Tests, 4th edition, AHB Wu, 2006.
Common derivatives include the colorless salts potassium thiocyanate and sodium thiocyanate.
Increased levels of myo-inositol in urine have been reported in diabetics (both insulin-dependent and non-insulin-dependent).
The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the superfamily of ATP-binding cassette (ABC) transporters.
It exists in nine possible stereoisomers, of which the most prominent is free inositol, or myo-Inositol.
Antibiotics commonly used for oral treatment of Lyme disease include doxycycline, amoxicillin, or cefuroxime axetil.
3-Hydroxyisovalerylcarnitine is a primary marker for 3-Methylcrotonyl-CoA carboxylase deficiency, Beta-Ketothiolase deficiency, Multiple carboxylase deficiency, 3-Hydroxy-3-methylglutaric aciduria, 2-Methyl-3-hydroxybutyric aciduria, Maternal 3-Methylcrotonyl-CoA carboxylase deficiency, and 2-Methylbutyrylglycinuria.
The diagnosis of dermal or cutaneous leishmaniasis is more difficult than the visceral form, since a detectable immune response is often absent.
The Severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS) coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2), first known as 2019 Novel Coronavirus (2019-nCoV), was first identified as the cause of a respiratory illness outbreak, later defined as Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-19), in Wuhan, China.
Magnolia grandiflora, commonly known as the Southern magnolia or bull bay, is a tree of the family Magnoliaceae native to the southeastern United States, from coastal Virginia south to central Florida, and west to eastern Texas and Arkansas.
It provides sulfur for other sulfur-containing compounds and is important in the transfer of methyl groups.
The protein encoded by this gene binds copper and zinc ions and is one of two isozymes responsible for destroying free superoxide radicals in the body.
"Weak D" is a D variant in which all epitopes of the D antigen are expressed, but in smaller quantity than usual.
Chloride is needed to keep the proper balance of body fluids and an essential part of digestive (stomach) juices.
Exposure also occurs upon use of gel in vaginal and rectal examinations and in connection with dental procedures.
Abacavir (ABC) is a Nucleoside Reverse Transcriptase Inhibitor(NRTI) antiretroviral drug used in the treatment of HIV.
Juglans regia (the Common walnut, Persian walnut, or English walnut), is the original walnut tree of the Old World.
The eyes may also become bloodshot, itchy, watery and sensitive to bright light.
Because the nanA gene is conserved across all strains, its presence in clinical specimens can be used to identify Streptococcus pneumoniae as one of the pathogens responsible for a specific infection.
Dry body weight can help monitor ECV but is difficult to determine since it is not a constant value and may vary between hemodialysis sessions.
The combination of Amoxicillin and clavulanate -- also known as Augmentin -- is an oral antibacterial combination consisting of the semisynthetic antibiotic amoxicillin and the -lactamase inhibitor, clavulanate.
In newborns, dried blood spot TREC analysis is used to screen for severe combined immunodeficiency as well as other disorders associated with low T cell counts, such as DiGeorge syndrome, trisomy 21, CHARGE syndrome, and congenital leukemia.
Phosphatidylinositol (abbreviated PtdIns, or PI) is a minor phospholipid component of eukaryotic cell membranes.
Studies have demonstrated racial and ethnic differences in the relationship between glucose levels and hemoglobin A1C, and it has been suggested that some descendants of sub-Saharan Africa may have higher levels of measured hemoglobin A1C compared to glucose levels due to hemoglobin variants .
The ABCA3 gene (ATP-binding cassette, sub-family A (ABC1), member 3) is located on chromosome 16p13.3.
This term commonly refers to the BENZOTHIADIAZINES that inhibit SODIUM-POTASSIUM-CHLORIDE SYMPORTERS and are used as DIURETICS.
The common antigens on RBCs are from the ABO system and include A, B and H antigens.
Α-Linolenic acid is a carboxylic acid with an 18-carbon chain and three cis double bonds.
Anabolic steroids also have androgenic and virilizing properties, including the development and maintenance of masculine characteristics such as the growth of the vocal cords and body hair.
Cabozantinib is an antineoplastic medication used to treat several types of cancer.
The presence of LBP with low concentrations of LPS speeds up the release of cytokines earlier in the infection process.
An acridine derivative formerly widely used as an antimalarial but superseded by chloroquine in recent years.
This highly reactive derivative of chlorine has potent bactericidal properties.
Albumin also binds and transports a variety of endogenous substances and medications.
HLA DRB3, 4 and 5 belong to the HLA class II beta chain paralogues that formed as a evolutionary duplication of HLA-DRB1.
Although the test is called a "Ratio", the LOINC property is "NFr" because the value represents the fraction of cells where the normal FMR1 is active.
Nafcillin is an antibiotic in the penicillin therapeutic category, used for treatment of infections such as osteomyolitis, septicemia, endocarditis, and CNS infectins caused by susceptible strains of staphylococci species.
It is available under various trade names including Maxolon, Reglan, Degan, Maxeran, Primperan, Pylomid, Cerucal, and Pramin.
The decreased blood flow may be due to narrowing of the coronary arteries (CORONARY ARTERIOSCLEROSIS), to obstruction by a thrombus (CORONARY THROMBOSIS), or less commonly, to diffuse narrowing of arterioles and other small vessels within the heart.
It can be found in the synovial fluid of the knees.
This gene encodes a subunit of a large protein complex known as a vacuolar H+-ATPase (V-ATPase).
Information from New England Journal of Medicine, Vol 334, No 19.
In humans, the calretinin protein is encoded by the CALB2 gene.
Orange sinensis refers to the citrus tree Citrus sinensis and its fruit.
Methyl diethanolamine is also known as a MDEA or N-Methyl diethanolamine and has the formula CH3N (C2H4OH)2.
Sulbactam-durlobactam (SUL-DUR), formerly ETX2514SUL, is a novel β-lactam-β-lactamase inhibitor designed specifically for the treatment of CRAB infections.
Many patients, especially older ones, with slowly progressing disease can be reassured and may not need any treatment in their lifetimes.
Solithromycin is a novel ketolide antibiotic undergoing clinical development for the treatment of community-acquired pneumonia (CAP) and other infections.
The number of times the patient was seen by the reporting healthcare entity in the past 12 months.
It has been estimated that over one-third of DHTRs are caused by anti-Jk^a.
Wound botulism occurs when open skin lesions or wounds are infected with C. botulinum that secretes the toxin.
In conjunction with history of exposure, serologic assays are used to detect the presence of hantavirus antibodies.
The CD79A and CD79B genes, located on chromosomes 19 and 17, respectively, encode the alpha and beta chains of the B-cell antigen receptor complex-associated protein.
The TCOF1 gene (Treacher Collins-Franceschetti syndrome 1) is located on chromosome 5q32.
The new virus caused the first influenza pandemic in more than 40 years.
In combination, sulfadiazine and pyrimethamine, can be used to treat toxoplasmosis, a disease caused by Toxoplasma gondii.
Since bile acids are made from endogenous cholesterol, the enterohepatic circulation of bile acids may be disrupted as a way to lower cholesterol.
However, activated CD8+ T-cell levels may be more closely related to viral load, and successful treatment with anti-retroviral therapy with resulting decrease in viral load has been associated with a concomitant decrease in activated CD8+ T-cells.
Visual acuity is expressed as 20/20, 20/40 up to about 20/800.
It is the only elm tolerant of waterlogged ground, its massive shallow root system forming distinctive high buttresses around the base of the trunk.
Lipid transfer proteins are often associated with the oral allergy syndrome and severe systemic reactions, although this has not been specifically documented in the case of peanut LTPs
Human infections with these viruses are typically incidental, as humans are unable to replicate the virus to high enough titres to reinfect arthropods and thus continue the virus life cycle.
A histamine H1 antagonist with low sedative action but frequent gastrointestinal irritation.
As humans age, the bone is constantly being laid down and reabsorbed.
The young larvae develop in horseflies of the genus Chrysops (deer flies, yellow flies), including the species C. dimidiata and C. silacea, which infect humans by biting them.
These disorders are characterized by juvenile onset of hyperuricemia, gout, and progressive renal failure
It is used to treat anxiety disorders, tension, and alcohol withdrawal.
It is used on lactating dairy and beef cattle, swine, goats, horses, and sheep to combat flies, lice and ticks.
Anecdotal evidence suggests that Cauliflower can uncommonly induce symptoms of food allergy in sensitised individuals; however, few studies have been reported to date
Benzophenone is the organic compound with the formula (C6H5)2CO, generally abbreviated Ph2CO.
It is listed by the world antidoping agency as a banned substance.
The protein encoded by this gene is the most abundant protein in mammalian urine under physiological conditions.
LDL carries cholesterol from the liver to other parts of the body and HDL carries cholesterol from other parts of the body to the liver where it can be broken down.
3-Methylcrotonylglycine is often considered to be a diagnostic marker of organic acidemias.
It may also be helpful in maintaining a steady blood sugar level.
Cefdinir (marketed by Abbott Laboratories under the brand name Omnicef) is a semi-synthetic, broad-spectrum antibiotic in the third generation of the cephalosporin class, proven effective for common bacterial infections of the ear, sinus, throat, and skin.
With their wingspans of 1.5-1.8 meters, the turkeys are by far the largest birds in the open forests in which they live, and are rarely mistaken for any other species.
The CEBPA gene (CCAAT/enhancer binding protein (C/EBP), alpha) is located on chromosome 19q13.1.
Fever, nausea, and vomiting are rare, and the disease lasts about 24 hours.
It has been isolated from fuel tanks, face creams, paints and textiles.
Species: Fasciola hepatica, Fasciola gigantica, Fasciola jacksoni, hybrid or introgressed populations of Fasciola gigantica × Fasciola hepatica also exist
Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been identified for this gene.
Animal allergens may be major contributors to allergy in occupational settings, e.g., furriers' premises.
Higher levels of Protein A in different strains of S. aureus have been associated with nasal carriage of this bacteria.
It produces methamphetamine as a metabolite, and is no longer marketed, due to possible problems with abuse.
Core binding factor (CBF) is a heterodimeric transcription factor that binds to the core element of many enhancers and promoters.
In general, they sting only when their nest is disturbed.
Monitoring and concentration-controlled dosing is required to maintain patient drug levels within a narrow therapeutic window; low levels could cause transplant rejection and high levels may cause nephrotoxicity.
Increased or decreased levels of urea may also suggest dehydration or increased protein intake.
Landsteiner and Wiener used blood from a monkey (Macacus rhesus) to immunize rabbits and guinea pigs in order to define new antibody specificities.
Ependyma is the thin epithelial membrane lining the ventricular system of the brain and the spinal cord.
ABC genes are divided into seven distinct subfamilies (ABC1, MDR/TAP, MRP, ALD, OABP, GCN20, White).
In adults, the Donath-Landsteiner antibody may appear in transient association with syphilis.
In pigs, cases of arsenic poisoning usually arise from the use of organic arsenical growth-promoting feed additives.
Originally approved for acute and maintenance treatment of schizophrenia as well as for acute mania and mixed mania/depression, cariprazine has now been approved for bipolar I depression.
The term may refer to any of two structural isomers, or to a mixture of them: in the IUPAC nomenclature, however, butane refers only to the unbranched n-butane isomer; the other one being called "methylpropane".
The distance from the embrasure of the lower central incisor to the Soft tissue pogonion, perpendicular to the Frankfort horizontal plane
The overlap of allergen specificity between the groups seems to be moderate or even small.
For example, the hippurate test may be used to differentiate bovine haemolytic Group B Streptococcus from human -haemolytic Group B Streptococcus.
Elevated methylcitric acid levels are indicative of an underlying metabolic disorder such as methylmalonic acidemia (MMA) and propionic acidemia (PA).
Cytochrome P450 1A2 (CYP1A2)-mediated drug metabolism is highly variable and often based on a patient's genotype.
Veterinary Medicine: Nitrofurazone is a topical anti-infective drug used to treat superficial wounds, burns, ulcers, and skin infections.
Clonazepam is a powerful benzodiazepine that was originally prescribed to treat seizure disorders but has increasingly been used to treat mood disorders including panic disorder and depression.
MSI is identifiable in cancer specimens in the pathology laboratory.
Bethanechol is generally used to increase smooth muscle tone, as in the GI tract following abdominal surgery or in urinary retention in the absence of obstruction.
This protein appears to promote muscle cell fusion and support myotube maintenance.
A group of compounds containing the porphin structure, four pyrrole rings connected by methine bridges in a cyclic configuration to which a variety of side chains are attached.
After a female ovum is fertilized by a sperm cell it becomes a zygote.
Treatment protocol during school hours: medication orders (type medication, dosage amount and time), 4.
Desmosterolosis, caused by defective activity of desmosterol reductase, combines a severe osteosclerotic skeletal dysplasia.
Japanese Encephalitis Virus is a virus from the family Flaviviridae.
Methyl acrylate is reagent used in the synthesis of remi-fentanil.
Imatinib is a drug used to treat certain types of cancer.
The SLC26A4 gene (solute carrier family 26 (anion exchanger), member 4) is located on chromosome 7q31.
Oral bioavailability is estimated to be about 10%, but food does not affect absorption of the prodrug.
In patients with deficiency of transaldolase, there's an accumulation of erythritol (from erythrose 4-phosphate), D-arabitol, and ribitol.
Pinheads are basically free tails which have no chromatin or head structure anterior to the basal plate.
C. famata is often misidentified as C. guilliermondii due to phenotypic similarity.
Western ragweed Code: w2 Latin name: Ambrosia psilostachya Source material: Pollen Family: Asteraceae (Compositae) Common names: Western ragweed, Perennial ragweed Allergen Exposure Geographical distribution Western ragweed is found across most of North America, including northern Mexico.
Laboratory suppression of deoxyuridine is used to diagnose megaloblastic anemias due to vitamin B12 and folate deficiencies.
Zirconium compounds have no known biological role and are not considered an industrial health hazard.
Methylmalonyl Coenzyme A mutase, also known as MCM is an enzyme that catalyzes the isomerization of methylmalonyl-CoA to succinyl-CoA and it is involved in key metabolic pathways.
Food allergen mix 77 (fx77) contains kiwi, cashew nut, hazelnut, tomato and sesame seed IgE antibodies.
The complete sample usually liquefies within 15 minutes at room temperature, although rarely it may take up to 60 minutes or more.
It is native to humid climates where precipitation ranges from about 760 mm to 1630 mm.
The protein has antibacterial activity against a number of bacterial species.
Exon 1 encodes the leader peptide, exon 2 and 3 encode the alpha1 and alpha2 domains, which both bind the peptide, exon 4 encodes the alpha3 domain, exon 5 encodes the transmembrane region and exons 6 and 7 encode the cytoplasmic tail.
The c.1436C>T sequence variant is common in Alaskan natives, and has been shown to affect fasting tolerance.
The further the distance, the longer the expected latency (the time from nerve stimulation to start of the action potential).
The hemodialysis fluid removed is the net fluid removed during hemodialysis.
Its range is extensive but its incidence is only significant in the Great Plains and Great Basin in the US.
However locally significant amounts of bromoform enter the environment formed as disinfection byproducts known as the trihalomethanes when chlorine is added to drinking water to kill bacteria.
Casein consists of a fairly high number of proline residues and it has no disulphide bridges.
The other regions of the viral genome are less variable.
Nifoxipam is a benzodiazepine that is a minor metabolite of flunitrazepam.
In mouse, conductin organizes a multiprotein complex of APC (adenomatous polyposis of the colon), beta-catenin, glycogen synthase kinase 3-beta, and conductin, which leads to the degradation of beta-catenin.
This gene is flanked on chromosome 5 by the genes for granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor and macrophage-colony stimulating factor receptor; all three genes may be implicated in the 5-q syndrome.
EMCV virulence is linked to sex, age and animal species of the infected host as well as the EMCV viral strain itself.
A multitude of mutant alleles with phenotypic effects have been identified.
It is transported in the blood for use by muscles.
As with other opioids, oxymorphone can cause physical dependency, and may be abused.
This can be caused by renal tubulointerstitial nephritis, tubular toxicity from heavy metal or nephrotoxic drug exposure, glomerulonephropathies and renal vasculopathies .
In humans, studies support that CPA is the main toxin believed to cause gas gangrene, a disease involving extensive local tissue damage and necrosis that leads to shock and death.
The SMC1A gene (structural maintenance of chromosomes 1A) is located on chromosome Xp11.22-p11.21.
The matrix protein gene of influenza virus A encodes two proteins: a matrix protein (M1) and an ion channel protein (M2).
At the time of this writing the literature is unclear about the potency of these compounds and their dealkylation metabolites, nor-W-18, nor-W-15 and nor-W-19.
Napsin A is an aspartic protease found in lung and kidney epithelial cells.
Chemically, dipipanone belongs to the class of opioids called the 4,4-diphenylheptane-3-ones.
EPA can be biosynthesized from alpha-linolenic acid (ALA), but it is much more efficient to increase levels by including EPA-rich sources in one's diet.
PTPs are known to be signaling molecules that regulate a variety of cellular processes including cell growth, differentiation, mitotic cycle, and oncogenic transformation.
The first symptoms of HGE/HGA normally begin one to two weeks after a tick bite, but a negative test for antibodies during the first seven to 10 days of illness is not always accurate.
Zinc protoporphyrin is a test used to detect exposure to lead.
The disease is highly infectious and is spread from dog to dog by physical contact and contact with feces.
Lobster is a large 10-footed, long-tailed crustacean with large claws known for their meat.
This protein is a type 3 transmembrane receptor for MGF (mast cell growth factor, also known as stem cell factor).
A. astronyxis*, A. castellanii*, A. comandoni, A. culbertsoni*, A. divionensis, A. griffini, A. hatchetti*, A. healyi, A. jacobsi, A. lenticulata, A. lugdunensis*, A. mauritaniensis, A. palestinensis*, A. pearcei, A. polyphaga*, A. pustulosa, A. quina*, A. rhysodes*, A. royreba, A. terricola (renamed A.castellanii Poussard), A. triangularis, and A. tubiashi.
Methionine and cysteine are the only sulfur-containing proteinogenic amino acids.
There are certain chemicals, such as polyethylene glycol, that can be added to remove macroprolactin from a suspicious sample.
Saccharopine is an intermediate in the degradation of lysine, formed by condensation of lysine and alpha-ketoglutarate.
An individual's personal sense of being a man, woman, or other gender, regardless of the sex that person was assigned at birth.
Edwards syndrome is associated with intrauterine growth retardation and fetal demise, and liveborn infants with Edwards syndrome typically have low birth weight, congenital heart disease, and characteristic physical features.
It is a very common plant growing on nitrogenous soils, like weedy and uncultivated areas, such as waste places and roadsides.
A 105-kDa serum glycoprotein with significant homology to the other late complement components, C7-C9.
Angelman syndrome is associated with cognitive delay, seizure disorder, speech impairment, and microcephaly.
It also blocks histamine, serotonin, dopamine and alpha-1 adrenergic receptors, but does not affect norepinephrine, dopamine, or serotonin reuptake.
The genes controlling the ABO system are located on the long arm of chromosome 9 and encode for either an a (1-3) N-acetylgalactosaminyltransferase (for A) or a (1,3) galactosyltransferase (for B).
The APC gene (adenomatous polyposis coli) is located on chromosome 5q21-q22.
Methyl isocyanate is an intermediate chemical in the production of carbamate pesticides (such as carbaryl, carbofuran, methomyl, and aldicarb).
B-lymphocyte antigen CD20 or CD20 is an activated-glycosylated phosphoprotein on the surface of all B-cells starting at the pro-B phase (CD45R+, CD117+) and increases in concentration until maturity.
B1 B cells have limited diversity of their B Cell Receptor (BCR) due to their lack of the enzyme terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase (TdT) and are potentially self-reactive.
The LRRK2 gene (leucine-rich repeat kinase 2) is located on chromosome 12q12.
Fibrin degradation product (FDPs) are components of the blood produced by clot degeneration.
Lindane is a mixture of the alpha-, beta-, gamma-, -delta, and epsilon-hexachlorocyclohexane produced when benzene is photochlorinated.
The cytokines have some similar actions to the Growth Factors but Growth Factors regulate proliferation of non-immune cells.
A non-steroidal anti-inflammatory agent (NSAID) that inhibits the enzyme cyclooxygenase necessary for the formation of prostaglandins and other autacoids.
It is also positive in thyroid cancers and is used for monitoring for metastasis and recurrence.
This gene encodes a tetrameric mitochondrial flavoprotein, which is a member of the acyl-CoA dehydrogenase family.
Sedoheptulose is a ketoheptose, a monosaccharide with seven carbon atoms and a ketone functional group.
1,2,2-Trimethylpropyl methylphosphonate (GD acid) is a metabolite of, and is used to measure exposure to the partent drug, a man-made chemical warfare nerve agent Soman (aka GD).
C pneumoniae is a frequent cause of acute respiratory infection, such as, pharyngitis, bronchitis, sinusitis, and community-acquired pneumonia (CAP).
A small amount (5%) of CO2 is dissolved in the blood as insoluble carbonic acid (H2CO3).
With liver diseases, its ability to absorb bile acids may diminish, resulting in increased serum levels.
IgM antibodies are less specific than IgG antibodies and more likely to result in a false positive, so a concurrent IgG titer should also be run.
Flupentixol's main use is as a long-acting injection given once in every two or three weeks to individuals with schizophrenia who have poor compliance with medication and suffer frequent relapses of illness, though it is also commonly given as a tablet.
ILHV has been isolated from multiple mosquito species and from various bird species.
SPINA-GD is calculated with GD = beta31 * (KM1 +) *
It is one of the most common causes of human gastroenteritis in the world.
Both Mace and Nutmeg spice are strongly aromatic, Mace somewhat more so.
However, it does bind tightly to other ligand-bound EGF receptor family members to form a heterodimer, stabilizing ligand binding and enhancing kinase-mediated activation of downstream signalling pathways, such as those involving mitogen-activated protein kinase and phosphatidylinositol-3 kinase.
Efavirenz (EFV, brand names Sustiva and Stocrin) is a non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitor (NNRTI) and is used as part of highly active antiretroviral therapy (HAART) for the treatment of a human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) type 1.
Most human papilloma virus (HPV) genomes encode for eight major proteins, six "early" (E1, E2, E3, E4, E6, and E7) and two "late" (L1 and L2).
These enzymes are classified in five major phylogenetic groups based on their gene sequences: CTX-M -1, CTX-M-2, CTX-M-8, CTX-M-9, CTX-M-25; two additional groups have been reported recently: CTX-M-74 and CTX-M-75.
Flax is an annual, 0.3-1 m high, wiry, more or less branching plant with small, unstalked, dark or grayish-green leaves.
Subsequently, intermediate form of the H gene have been found and these individuals are called "para-Bombays".
Transferrin is a serum protein that delivers iron to cells.
It has little effect on glandular secretion or the cardiovascular system.
Tyrosine acts as an efficient hydrogen acceptor whereas the lysine covalently binds and stabilized the intermediates.
Subtype 1 is most often found in respiratory specimens, and types 2-4 in stool specimens.
Dermatophagoides pteronyssinus Der p 1 and Der p 2 can be used for selecting patients for specific immunotherapy (SIT).
Rarely, severe life-threatening forms of the disease called hyperinfection syndrome and disseminated strongyloidiasis can occur.
Potential cross-reactivity With the use of a serum pool from patients sensitive to Short ragweed, the cross-reactivity of IgE antibodies to six Ragweeds was studied through the radioallergosorbent test.
Also referred to as Batten disease, NCL comprises a class of autosomal recessive, neurodegenerative disorders affecting children.
It has been shown to be toxic to mammals and causes abnormal cellular changes in laboratory animals.
Deficiency of this enzyme may be transmitted as an X-linked trait. .
The risk can be estimated based on maternal age, prenatal genetic testing of fetal DNA, various maternal lab tests, and fetal nuchal translucency or nuchal fold measurements.
Toxicity studies have shown various adverse effects, particularly the occurrence of liver neoplasms.
UPD can be the result of heterodisomy, in which a pair of non-identical chromosomes are inherited from one parent (an earlier stage meiosis I error) or isodisomy, in which a single chromosome from one parent is duplicated (a later stage meiosis II error).
It is more potent than procaine but its effect is shorter than that of bupivacaine or prilocaine.
Its functions are to stimulate B cell growth and increase immunoglobulin secretion.
The protein encoded by this gene is an O-mannosyltransferase that requires interaction with the product of the POMT1 gene for enzymatic function.
It is the most common cause of mucormycosis in humans and occasionally infects other animals.
Although these deposits often cause no symptoms, they can lead to organ damage.
This medication can be habit forming and has potential for abuse.
Capric acid occurs naturally in coconut oil and palm kernel oil, as well as in the milk of various mammals and to a lesser extent in other animal fats.
Clara cell protein 16 (CC16, sometimes referred to as CC10, clara cell secretory protein or uteroglobin) is an anti-inflammatory protein belonging to the secretoglobin family.
Upon binding the hormone ligand, the receptor dissociates from accessory proteins, translocates into the nucleus, dimerizes, and then stimulates transcription of androgen responsive genes.
Copeptin is more stable in serum or plasma compared to vasopressin and copeptin assays are simpler and less time-consuming to run.
Radial mechanics of the heart are reflected by the myocardial shortening and thickening.
Monocytes phagocytose bacteria and release interferon to stimulate the immune system.
Bone alkaline phosphatase (B-ALP) isoenzyme is produced by osteoblasts and increases in serum in association with osteoblastic activity.
Other diseases associated with lysine include hyperlysinemia, lysine intolerance, carbamoyl phosphate synthetase deficiency, and saccharopinuria (saccharopine is an intermediate in the metabolism of lysine).
A chemical made from crude oil that is mixed with solvents for a number of uses.
PPIV1 is transmitted in respiratory secretions and symptoms of infection include lethargy, coughing and sneezing with serous nasal discharge.
Increased autoantibody titer against human calreticulin is found in infants with complete congenital heart block of both the IgG and IgM classes.
Wild rice (also called Canada rice, Indian rice, and water oats) is four species of grasses forming the genus Zizania, and the grain which can be harvested from them.
Rapid storage of THC metabolites in body fat occurs after use.
A crystal or crystalline solid is a material composed of atoms, molecules, or ions arranged in a spatial, orderly, repeating pattern.
It has the atomic symbol Gd, atomic number 64, and atomic weight 157.25.
Urticaria as a result of contact with Anise has been documented.
Wall pellitory pollen has been recognised as an important allergen, causing symptoms of asthma, allergic rhinitis and allergic conjunctivitis.
It is also used for the production of green and blue mold cheese.
Sialic acid modification of cell surface molecules is crucial for their function in many biologic processes, including cell adhesion and signal transduction.
About 76 % of T cell neoplasms express Cd5, although it is not present in cutaneous T cell lymphoma.
L-carnitine is essential for the transport of free fatty acids into mitochondria where fatty acids are oxidized from fat to produce energy.
Elevated levels of the protein may be associated with decline in GFR.
WT1 gene encodes a transcription factor that contains four zinc-finger motifs at the C-terminus and a proline/glutamine-rich DNA-binding domain at the N-terminus.
A species of fish in the cod family Gadidae, known as the Atlantic cod, It is one of the most important commercial fishes.
The vast majority of humans express H-substance, which is the basis for the ABO blood group system, but a few rare individuals ("Bombay phenotype") do not-and a chemical isolated from Ulex europaeus is used to identify these individuals.
Cells in the cell cycle can be identified using antibodies against the nuclear antigen Ki-67.
Glucose is used in the cells of the body and in the brain.
NADPH plays an important role in regulating neutrophil activity and in helping phagocytes neutralize bacteria and fungi.
A serine endopeptidase that is formed from TRYPSINOGEN in the pancreas.
Parathion is classified as a possible human carcinogen and teratogen.
Platelet mass has prognostic value in patients with myelodysplastic syndromes.
The myristic acid has a sufficiently high hydrophobicity to become incorporated into the fatty acyl core of the phospholipid bilayer of the plasma membrane of the eukaryotic cell.
Homogenous (diffuse) ANA pattern suggests SLE or other connective tissue diseases.
The size of the deletion varies among affected individuals with larger deletions tending to result in more severe intellectual disability and physical abnormalities than smaller deletions.
The combination of velpatasvir and sofosbuvir with or without ribavirin provides high rates of sustained virologic response for patients with chronic HCV.
AKB48 (APINACA, N-(1-adamantyl)-1-pentyl-1H-indazole-3-carboxamide), an indazole-based synthetic cannabinoid structurally similar to JWH 018 adamantyl carboxamide and STS-135.
Proliferative enteropathy is a thickening of the intestinal epithelium from the proliferation of enterocytes (cells of the intestinal lining).
Elbasvir (formerly MK-8742) is a hepatitis C virus (HCV) NS5A inhibiting antiviral drug for the treatment of HCV infection.
B little g super little c antigens are members of the HLA Class I antigens and represent HLA-A28 (A68 or A69).
This gene product catalyzes the oxidation of long-chain aliphatic aldehydes to fatty acid.
The name sometimes refers to all members of the family Soleidae, and also frozen fillets of other cheaper flatfishes, e.g. flounders or dabs from the family Pleuronectidae, may appear on the market falsely labeled as sole.
The pancreas releases glucagon when blood sugar (glucose) levels fall too low.
Depending on the assays, KRT19 has been shown to be both a specific and a non-specific marker.
Multiple mutations in this gene have been identified, which cause pulmonary surfactant metabolism dysfunction type 2, also called pulmonary alveolar proteinosis due to surfactant protein C deficiency, and are associated with interstitial lung disease in older infants, children, and adults.
The SURF1 gene (surfeit 1) is located on chromosome 9q34.2.
RF and IgG form immune complexes, which are part of the disease process (serum sickness) of various rheumatological diseases.
Leaf stalks contain a mixture of citric and malic acids, used to make sweet preserves or pie filling.
These studies were carried out in vitro, so it does not necessarily mean it works the same in people.
The genomic differences in the S gene between the US PEDv prototype and INDEL variant may be responsible for the virulence differences.
The strain rate is the change in strain over time and has the unit of measure s^-1.
It may be used for the prophylaxis of cytomegalovirus disease associated with transplantation of kidney, lung, liver, pancreas, and heart.
It is administered with ritonavir in combination therapy to treat HIV infection.
Methanol burns in air forming carbon dioxide and water:2 CH3OH + 3O2 †' 2 CO2 + 4 H2
The genetic material of viruses in this family is double-stranded RNA.
Surfactant reduces the surface tension of fluid in the lungs and helps make the small air sacs in the lungs (alveoli) more stable and keeps them from collapsing.
A short list of Borrelia species with the disease associated with its infection is listed below.
Art v 1 from Mugwort represents a specific marker allergen suitable for discriminating between genuine Mugwort sensitization and cross-reactivity.
Molybdenum measurements can be used for assessing nutrition (as in total parenteral nutrition, TPN), molybdenum cofactor deficiency, and following patients with molybdenum-containing prostheses.
Very few foods contain vitamin D. The flesh of fatty fish (such as salmon, tuna, and mackerel) and fish liver oils are among the best sources.
Granular leukocytes with a nucleus that usually has two lobes connected by a slender thread of chromatin.
It is found in hemicellulose and can be converted to galactose by hydrolysis.
The Common sunflower is a plant from which we obtain Sunflower oil and seeds.
Gangliosides are present in the cell membrane and are found predominantly in the nervous system.
Primary bile acids are produced by the liver and stored in the gall bladder.
A subset of patients who are positive for anti-nucleosome antibodies but negative for anti-dsDNA antibodies may have a milder course of SLE that does not involve the kidneys.
It is a colorless liquid with a distinctive, unpleasant fish-like odor.
Poliomyelitis, often called polio or infantile paralysis, is a viral paralytic disease.
CD36 (Cluster of Differentiation 36) is an integral membrane protein found on the surface of many cell types in vertebrate animals and is also known as FAT, SCARB3, GP88, glycoprotein IV (gpIV) and glycoprotein IIIb (gpIIIb).
Isocitric acid is commonly used as a marker to detect the authenticity and quality of fruit products, most often citrus juices.
However, a person who is not physically present at the delivery should not be reported as the attendant.
Pea, a legume, may commonly induce symptoms of food allergy in sensitised individuals, and IgE antibodies to Pea have been detected in sensitised individuals.
The pituitary gland produces and releases GH into the blood in pulses throughout the day.
Drugs such as bevacizumab can inhibit VEGFs and control or slow those diseases.
Mutations in this gene are a cause of combined malonic and methylmalonic aciduria.
Diagnosis of PHEV can be made when the virus is isolated from the brain or brain stem of euthanized pigs within 2 days of the onset of symptoms.
O-desmethylvenlafaxine is also marketed and sold distinctly under the brand name Pristiq.
The cytochrome P450 proteins are monooxygenases which catalyze many reactions involved in drug metabolism and synthesis of cholesterol, steroids and other lipids.
Typically, osmolality is tested if an individual shows signs of low blood sodium concentration (hyponatremia), alcohol poisoning, an increase/decrease in urine, or chronic diarrhea.
The role of urinary oxalate in the formation of calcium oxalate renal stone; as well as the urinary oxalate, glycolate, glyoxylate, and citrate concentrations after acute intravenous administration of various doses of glyoxylate in rats to study oxalate metabolism
These levels are elevated due to impairment of renal reclamation of biotin.
MRF family members include MyoD, Myf5, myogenin, and MRF4 (Myf6).
Blood is a highly specialized circulating tissue consisting of several types of cells suspended in a fluid medium known as plasma.
Thiamine pyrophosphate is a coenzyme that is present in all living systems, in which it catalyzes several biochemical reactions.
One third of all inhabitants of Sub-Sahara Africa carry the gene because in areas where malaria is common there is a survival advantage in carrying only one single sickle-cell gene (sickle-cell trait).
They may cause vasodilation by desensitizing the vascular smooth muscle cells to calcium release induced by norepinephrine.
M. tuberculosis has an unusual, waxy coating on its cell surface (primarily mycolic acid), which makes the cells impervious to Gram staining, so acid-fast detection techniques are used, instead.
It catalyzes the first committed step in the universal biosynthetic pathway leading to CoA and is itself subject to regulation through feedback inhibition by acyl CoA species.
This factor circulates in plasma, and is converted to the active form by the release of the activation peptide by thrombin during coagulation.
Storage mite allergy was initially reported to involve mainly farmers and grain workers.
It is in the same class of diseases as BSE in cattle and Chronic Wasting Disease in elk and deer.
As a result of this blockage and breakdown of xylem, symptoms appear in plants such as leaf wilting, yellowing and eventually plant death.
Central Sleep Apnea (CSA) is a pattern of breathing characterized by deep inspiratory cycle interchanged with complete cessation of breathing.
In the blood gas analysis test, blood is drawn from an artery and analyzed in the lab for pH, partial pressure of carbon dioxide, partial pressure of oxygen, bicarbonate content per 100 mL of blood, oxygen saturation, and oxygen content.
A nuclear RNA-protein complex that plays a role in RNA processing.
Different dialysate fluids are used depending on the needs of the patient.
It plays a key role in controlling synaptic plasticity and memory function.
Intensity can be further defined in absolute or relative terms.
Filoviruses cause viral hemorrhagic fevers, characterised by often fatal bleeding and coagulation abnormalities.
Patients infected with HTLV-I may remain asymptomatic for up to 20 years, with fewer than 5% of infected patients developing myelopathies or adult T-cell leukemia.
The teleomorph (sexual form) is an ascomycete, Botryotinia cinerea (see taxonomy box).
None of the assays for intact PTH measure PTH (35-84), which is actually the fragment of PTH present in highest amounts in blood.
DNA from Y. pestis has been found in the teeth of those who died from the Black Death, however, and medieval corpses who died from other causes did not test positive for Y. pestis.,
The receptor is a transmembrane glycoprotein present on the surface of myeloid lineage cells such as neutrophils, monocytes, macrophages, and eosinophils, where it mediates immunologic responses to pathogens.
Gases, dusts, and fumes containing tin may be released from smelting and refining processes, burning of waste, and burning of fossil fuels (coal or oil).
The protein encoded by this gene can bind to and inhibit the dipeptidyl peptidase activity of CD26, and it can induce apoptosis in certain cell types.
This is particularly the case in the Mediterranean area, where Peach is regarded as a major allergen.
Other sources of preformed vitamin A are milk and eggs, which also include some provitamin A. Most dietary provitamin
The score is derived from a microscopic exam of sputum specimens that looks at; 1) the number of neutrophils per low power field, 2) the presence of mucus strands, and 3) the number of squamous epithelial cells per low power field.
Anti-PM-SCL antibodies (75kD and 100 kD) are anti-nuclear antibodies present in patients with polymyositis (PM), systemic sclerosis (SSc), and PM/SSc overlap syndromes.
Patients with this stage need adjuvant chemotherapy and possibly radiation therapy.
The cytokines have some similar actions to the Growth Factors but Growth Factors regulate proliferation of non-immune cells.
It is thought that Brassica napus originated from a hybridisation between the Turnip (B. rapa) and Kale (B. oleracea acephala).
Most compounds in the NBOMe compounds are active at verly low sub-milligram doses.
Mutations in this gene cause infantile onset spinocerebellar ataxia (IOSCA) and progressive external ophthalmoplegia (PEO) and are also associated with several mitochondrial depletion syndromes.
This gene encodes a cell surface tyrosine kinase receptor for members of the platelet-derived growth factor family.
The blockade of opioid receptors is the basis behind its action in the management of opioid dependence-it reversibly blocks or attenuates the effects of opioids.
It is also the most common hemorrhagic fever that is exported beyond its endemic area to countries like the United States, the United Kingdom, the Netherlands, Japan, and Israel.
Cytochrome P450 1A2 (CYP1A2)-mediated drug metabolism is highly variable and often based on a patient's genotype.
Methylmercury and metallic mercury vapors are more harmful than other forms, because more mercury in these forms reaches the brain.
Tarragon is a member of the Asteraceae (Compositae) family and is closely related to Common Wormwood (Artemesia absinthium), Wormwood (A. annua), Mugwort (A. vulgaris), and Sagebrush (A. tridentate).
The other six include nucleocapsid (N), phospho (P), membrane (M), fusion (F), hemagglutinin-neuraminidase (HN), and large (L) genes.
Next to Rice, it is the world's most widely used grain.
The Olive is the fruit of the Olive tree(Olea europaea) and is a major component of the agriculture and gastronomy along the Mediterranean both in Europe and North Africa, as well as in the Middle East.
The normal yellow color of urine is attributable to urobilin.
TRPP1 may function in renal tubular development, morphology, and function, and may modulate intracellular calcium homoeostasis and other signal transduction pathways.
The value is traditionally reported as a percent, and it represents the fraction of all full mutation bands that are methylated.
For example, carbonic acid (HO-CO-OH) is unstable and has a tendency to convert to carbon dioxide (CO2) and water (H2 O).
Complement C2, a proenzyme, C1 cleaves it to form a fragment that goes on to become the enzyme site for C3 and C5 convertase and another that relates to angio-edema.
A potent and specific HIV protease inhibitor that appears to have good oral bioavailability.
In central nervous system (CNS) tumors, including oligodendrogliomas, glioblastomas, haemangiopericytomas and medulloblastomas, the presence of somatic mutations in the TERT promoter region have primarily been identified.
A thyroid hormone normally synthesized and secreted by the thyroid gland in much smaller quantities than thyroxine (T4).
It has a highly restricted target cell specificity acting only on endothelial cells.
We now know that the Bombay phenotype is due to a recessive gene at the H locus; ie. h and is therefore referred to as Oh.
There are eight groups of rotavirus, A through H. Groups A, B, C, and H are associated with an acute gastroenteritis and are found in humans and animals.
The CNBP (CCHC-type zinc finger, nucleic acid binding protein) gene is located on chromosome 3q21.
Palatinase (also called sucrase-isomaltase) is a brush-border disaccharidase enzyme that hydrolyzes palatinose.
The majority of cases of hemolytic disease of the newborn (HDN) are associated with the principle antigens of the Rh system (D, C, E, little c,and little e), and the KEL1 (K) antigen is the most clinically important antigen in the Kell system also frequently encountered in transfusion reactions and HDN.
American tick bite fever (also known as "Rickettsia parkeri infection") is a condition that may be characterized by a rash of maculopapules.
Vanillylmandelic acid (VMA) is the major metabolite of the catecholamines.
It accounts for up to 70% of malaria cases in certain areas in South East Asia where it is mostly found.
Measures circulating epithelial cells that are assumed to be carcinoma cells.
Tomato is the most universally accepted vegetable among all cultural groups, and second only to Potato as a vegetable in world food production.
It plays an important role in the development of the brain and exerts its effects on specific neurons in the nervous system.
It is an inhibitor of the enzyme tyrosine 3-monooxygenase, and consequently of the synthesis of catecholamines.
A. alternate is a mold, a member of the imperfect fungi family, and one of the main allergens affecting children.
Dermatitis may occur with direct contact due to mechanical irritation from the prickly floral bracts.
Having all eggs have been penetrated by multiple sperm is considered to be a positive sign for fertility.
The GJB2 gene (gap junction protein, beta 2, 26kDa) is located on chromosome 13q11-q12.
They represent a significant sensitization risk also for less atopic individuals due to their often high concentration in the air.
The stent expansion pressure is the amount of pressure applied to a coronary stent in order to expand it to the appropriate diameter, and the expansion time is how long it takes to expand.
HRVs are positive-sense, single-stranded-RNA (ssRNA) viruses of approximately 7,200 bp. HRVs, which are the cause of more than one-half of cold like illnesses, are commonly associated with upper respiratory tract infection, otitis media, and sinusitis.
Gibberella fujikuroi is a fungal plant pathogen that causes bakanae disease in rice seedlings.
H-type and L-type BSE were named based on abnormal prion bands migrating to a higher (H) or lower (L) position on western blot analysis compared to the classical BSE (C-type) prion protein.
Myristoleic acid, or 9-tetradecenoic acid, is an omega-5 fatty acid.
Allergy manifestations to Kiwi range from localized oral allergy syndrome (OAS) to life-threatening anaphylaxis.
The system has since been updated as part of interRAI's restructuring initiative to ensure that all of our instruments contain common items and definitions for overlapping clinical content.
It is one of the most widely cultivated tree fruits.
In Blacks, DR5 may be present instead of DR2, however, nearly all have DQ1.
Platelet factor-4 (PF4) is a 70-amino acid protein that is released from the alpha-granules of activated platelets and binds with high affinity to heparin.
Leptospira interrogans serovar Zanoni is one of the serovars associated with "Cane-cutters' Disease" and is found in coastal and tableland areas of Australia.
The virus is neurotropic multiplying in neurons and myotubes of vertebrates.
The major allergen of birch tree pollen is Bet v 1.
It is best known by the brand names K2 and Spice, both of which have largely become genericized trademarks used to refer to any synthetic cannabis product.
Currently, it is used to exterminate sucking and leaf eating insects in soil, on ornamental plants, fruit, and vegetables.
Tocopherols react with the most reactive form of oxygen and protect unsaturated fatty acids from oxidation.
High levels of phenylpyruvic acid can be found in the urine of individuals with phenylketonuria (PKU).
Immunoglobulin E (IgE) is a class of antibody, a glycoprotein, that plays an important role in allergic reactions, especially those associated with type 1 hypersensitivity.
AH-7921 (3,4-dichloro-N-{ methyl}benzamide) is a novel synthetic opioid agonist, first developed in the 1970s, but never used clinically due to its strong addictive properties.
Cynodon (Greek Dog-tooth) is a genus of nine species of grasses, native to warm temperate to tropical regions of the old world.
Human coronavirus (HCoV) HKU1 was identified in Hong Kong in 2005.
This gene encodes a DNA topoisomerase, an enzyme that controls and alters the topologic states of DNA during transcription.
The ammonium (more obscurely: aminium) cation is a positively charged polyatomic cation with the chemical formula NH4+.
Studies have shown that the genetic diversity of the PRRSV genome arises mainly from a few highly variable regions, such as the segments of open reading frame 1a (ORF1a) coding for nonstructural proteins 1 and 2 and the structural proteins encoded by ORF3-5.
LDLR mutations result in defective binding of LDL to the LDL receptor, resulting in increased circulating levels of LDL.
The leaves are 10€"25 cm long, pinnate, with 5€"9 leaflets, each leaflet up to 8 cm long, with a serrated margin; both the stem and leaves are densely glandular-hairy.
Less than 10% of all adverse reactions to drugs have an immunological background, and only a part of those are IgE-mediated.
Additionally, abusers have a low risk for methanol-induced complications, including visual dysfunction and refractory acidosis.
In enzymology, a glucosamine N-acetyltransferase is an enzyme that catalyzes the chemical reaction acetyl-CoA + D-glucosamine to CoA + N-acetyl-D-glucosamine.
The GNPTAB gene (N-acetylglucosamine-1-phosphate transferase subunits alpha and beta) is located on chromosome 12q23.2.
Due to concerns about its toxicity, it is no longer present in consumer products
Some individuals with the poor metabolizer phenotype have no functional protein since they carry 2 null alleles whereas in other individuals the gene is absent.
Lincomycin is an antibiotic that comes from the bacteria Streptomyces lincolnensis.
Natalizumab is a humanized monoclonal antibody against the cellular adhesion molecule α4-integrin.
These ANCA are called cytoplasmic ANCA (c-ANCA) and the antigen they target is proteinase 3 (PR3) which is part of the azurophilic granules of neutrophils.
It has an "ether-like" odor, but commercial samples are typically contaminated with foul-smelling impurities, such as carbonyl sulfide.
This syndrome is associated with short stature, moderate to severe intellectual disability, distinctive facial features, and broad thumbs and first toes, and some patients may also have eye abnormalities, heart and kidney defects, dental problems, and obesity.
ACTH is a hormone produced in the pituitary gland that stimulates the adrenal glands to release cortisol.
Within the first year of life, this condition causes episodes of vomiting, diarrhea, dehydration, lethargy, hypotonia, hypoglycemia, and metabolic acidosis.
Most of these mutations result in reduced or non-functional p16(INK4a) protein.
The function of this gene product is unknown; however, homology to other proteins suggests that it may be an integral membrane transporter.
It has a high clinical and bacteriological rate of success in staphylococcal and streptococcal infections
There, they are broken down to acetyl-CoA which is oxidized via the TCA cycle to yield energy.
Species of Helminthosporium are best known as parasites of cereals and grasses.
If the enzyme has missense mutation and in-frame deletions from the 3' end, fumarase deficiency results.
Testing for IgE antibodies may be used to help diagnose an allergic disease or the cause of an anaphylactic episode in a patient.
Nicotinuric acid (Nicotinurate) is a metabolite of nicotinic acid and nicotinamide (Niacinamide).
The anesthesiologist can adjust the relative proportion of each fresh gas component over time according to the patient's clinical status.
The encoded ATPase may be involved in the assembly or function of nuclear protein complexes.
These propeptides are then cleaved from the collagen triple helix molecule during its secretion, after which the collagens polymerize into extracellular collagen fibrils.
Sex hormone binding globulin (SHBG) is a beta-globulin that transports testosterone, dihydrotestosterone (DHT), and estradiol in plasma.
Abrin can be made in the form of a powder, a mist, or a pellet, or it can be dissolved in water.
Increased levels of MDA have been found in corneas of patients suffering from keratoconus and bullous keratopathy.
The test is used to diagnose Acute Promyelocytic Leukemia (APL), detect residual or recurrent APL, and to monitor PML-RARA levels in patients with APL.
The host of the Copenhageni serovar is Rattus norvegicus, which is also the host of other strains of Leptospira that are less virulent.
The Hawaiian varieties are the Papayas commonly found in supermarkets.
Anti-GM2 antibodies have also been associated with an acute inflammatory neuropathy as a potentially paraneoplastic phenomenon.
Bromelain (Ana c 1) is a glycoprotein extracted from pineapple, Ananas comosus.
It comes in the form of tablets or a powder, which users can swallow, snort or inject, producing similar effects to MDMA, amphetamines, and cocaine.
It lowers blood glucose by stimulating the release of insulin from the pancreas.
Unlike Ragweed and Giant ragweed, Western ragweed can reproduce vegetatively from creeping roots (rhizomes), which often gives it a straight-line pattern across lawns and waste areas.
The Respiratory Disturbance Index (RDI) is the average number of all respiratory disturbances including, apneas, hypopneas and respiratory effort related arousals, per hour of sleep.
IgE-mediated reactions often present as large local reactions with swelling extending from the sting site.
Its native range is S. Europe to W. Asia, and seems to have been introduced to Britain by prehistoric people, where its habitat consists of rocky places near the coast in south-west England and Wales.
Some studies have reported that prolonged exposure can produce liver or kidney damage, or uterine cancer in mice, but these data have been difficult to reproduce.
Lorazepam is rapidly conjugated at its 3-hydroxy group into lorazepam glucuronide which is then excreted in the urine.
Congenital hypoaldosteronism caused by inherited enzymatic defects in aldosterone biosynthesis are rare.
Ribonuclease P, RNase P) is a type of ribonuclease which cleaves RNA.
Not all cases of ingested P. shigelloides result in illness, and the dose needed for clinical symptoms is presumed to be at least a million organisms.
Brivaracetam (BRV) is a synaptic vesicle protein 2A (SV2A) ligand that is a more potent analog of levetiracetam, the first SV2A ligand in a new class of anticonvulsants.
Metastasis that has only occurred in the subcapsular region of the lymph node implies early invasion, while metastasis in the intramedullary region of the lymph node implies later stages of invasion.
Pru p 3, possibly along with other larger proteins, is involved in allergenic relationships with other fruits from the family Rosaceae, particularly Apricot, Cherry, and Plum.
EBV early antigen consists of two components: diffuse and restricted.
Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
Treatment protocol during school hours: medication orders (type medication, dosage amount and time), 4.
Clavulanic acid is biosynthetically generated from the amino acid arginine.
Patients with atopic dermatitis (AD) are frequently colonized with Staphylococcus aureus (S.a) strains that secret exotoxins such as Staphylococcus enterotoxins A, B, C, D, E and Toxic shock syndrome toxin (SEA, SEB, SEC, SED, SEE and TSST), where SEA and SEB seem to be the most important ones involved in the IgE synthesis.
Rabbits are small mammals in the family Leporidae of the order Lagomorpha, found in many parts of the world.
These are reported as a pair of one character amino acid codes such as RR, RH, QQ, etc.
1,1-DCE was the precursor to the original cling-wrap for food, but this application has been phased out.
Defects in this gene are frequently found in patients with prostate tumors.
Teichoic acids are bacterial polysaccharides of glycerol phosphate or ribitol phosphate linked via phosphodiester bonds.
Oregano, comprising the species of the genus Origanum, from the Mediterranean region of Europe and Asia, is an extremely variable plant grown since ancient times for ornamental, culinary and medicinal uses.
Interleukin 5 stimulates growth and differentiation of eosinophil progenitor without influencing cells committed to neutrophils, basophils, or monocytes.
The overlap of allergen specificity between the groups seems to be moderate or even small.
The extracellular portion of the protein interacts with fibroblast growth factors, setting in motion a cascade of downstream signals, ultimately influencing mitogenesis and differentiation.
It contains makisterone A and other STEROIDS, some having ECDYSTEROID activity on insects.
Acetyl fentanyl is an illicitly synthesized derivative of fentanyl with no legitimate medical use or legitimate production.
Integrins are heterodimeric proteins made up of alpha and beta subunits.
1,2,4-Trichlorobenzene is an organic compound used as a solvent, and is one of the best known solvents used to dissolve fullerenes and pentacene.
Anecdotal evidence suggests that asthma, allergic rhinitis and allergic conjunctivitis are common following exposure to pollen from Careless weed; however, few specific studies have been reported to date
It is advised to maintain the virus on the farm in order to preserve a natural immunity in the sows and to avoid outbreaks in the piglets.
In 1990 an oncogene, v-mpl, was identified from the murine myeloproliferative leukemia virus that was capable of immortalizing bone marrow hematopoietic cells from different lineages.
Gp-210 anchors the pore complex to the nuclear membrane and protein tagging reveals its primarily located on the luminal side of double layer membrane at the pore.
The body synthesizes about 800 mg of cholesterol per day and about half of that is used for bile acid synthesis.
Human parechoviruses are commonly spread and more than 95% of humans are infected by human parechoviruses early in life, within two to five years of age.
Mitochondrial rRNA is encoded by MT-RNR1 (12S) and MT-RNR2 (16S).
The jackfruit (Artocarpus heterophyllus or A. heterophylla is a species of tree in the mulberry family (Moraceae), which is native to parts of Southern and Southeast Asia.
The MTR gene (5-methyltetrahydrofolate-homocysteine methyltransferase) is located on chromosome 1q43.
Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
This gene is located within the Smith-Magenis syndrome region on chromosome 17.
The dose, duration of infusion, and normal values used in clinical practice vary considerably among different centers.
The virus is maintained in birds primarily through Culiseta melanura mosquitoes and transmission to other species occurs via mosquitoes.
It can also be an indirect test of liver function, but is rarely used for this purpose.
Increased levels of HMVA are found in patients with maple syrup urine disease (MSUD), an inherited metabolic disease characterized by sweet-smelling urine, ketoacidosis, seizures, and neurological dysfunction.
Patients with acute myocardial infarct(AMI), hemolytic anemia, megaloblastic anemia and, occasionally, renal injury, have LD1/LD2 "flip" where LD2 is greater than LD1.
Severe symptoms of Babesia infection include respiratory failure, disseminated intravascular coagulation, congestive heart failure, liver and renal failure, and splenic infarction.
"Sulfur" granules form in a central purulence surrounded by neutrophils.
Red cedar is a form of Cypress tree, not a true Cedar (genus Cedrus) but a variety of Juniper.
After this procedure, stool will collect into a bag attached to the abdomen through the stoma.
Mutations in the HGF gene are associated with autosomal recessive deafness-39, a non-syndromic hearing loss.
The bla(OXA) gene is one of several beta-lactam antibiotic resistance gene markers.
During the A wave, upper-case A represents the blood flow velocity (LOINC component: blood flow velocity.
More than 25 mutations have been identified as causing type 2 MEN.
It blocks postsynaptic dopamine receptors and decreases dopamine activity, and helps reduce hallucinations and delusions.
Elevated fecal levels have been seen in patient's with IBD and GI tract infections.
It is a member of the dibenzodiazepine family and structurally related to clozapine.
Fatty acids with 22 or more carbon atoms are called very long chain fatty acids (VLCFAs) and are present in small amounts in most tissues.
High levels of antibodies to CCP have a strong association with RA and are predictive of an aggressive and destructive disease outcome.
The TH gene (tyrosine hydroxylase) is located on chromosome 11p15.5.
In healthy female cattle, BMIS is produced by the granulosa cells of growing ovarian follicles and is an indicator of the total number of ovarian follicles and oocytes.
It is a local anesthetic and vasoconstrictor and is clinically used for that purpose, particularly in the eye, ear, nose, and throat.
In ALZHEIMER DISEASE and other dementing disorders, there is an important synapse loss due in part to a decrease of synaptophysin in the presynaptic vesicles.
This enzyme complex functions in the catabolism of branched-chain amino acids.
Most common are Trichophyton mentagrophytes, Trichophyton rubrum, Trichophyton schoenleinii, Trichophyton tonsurans, Trichophyton verrucosum, and Trichophyton violaceum.
Targets include upE (targets elements upstream of the E gene), 1A (targets the ORF1a gene) and nucleocapsid protein genes (specific to MERS-CoV).
Most of alpha hydroxytriazolam is cleared within 12 hours of ingestion.
Lactulose is not absorbed by the digestive system and can help determine distal end bacterial overgrowth, which means the bacteria are lower in the small intestine.
FGF21 is involved in energy regulation and has been associated with weight loss and decreased triglyceride accumulation in the liver.
IAV maintained in wild birds have been associated with stable host switch events to novel hosts including most often to domestic poultry but also to horses, swine, toothed whales and humans, among other species.
LFA-1 plays a central role in leukocyte intercellular adhesion through interactions with its ligands, ICAMs 1-3 (intercellular adhesion molecules 1 through 3), and also functions in lymphocyte costimulatory signaling.
Most of the lipids are phospholipids including lecithin (L), sphingomyelin (S), disaturated lecithin, phosphatidyl inositol (PI), and phosphatidyl glycerol (PG).
Desflurane induces anesthesia by blocking calcium and sodium ion channels, thus disrupting synaptic transmission in the brain.
Disease-associated mutations tend to be clustered in a small region designated the mutation cluster region (MCR) and result in a truncated protein product.
It is used in wound debriding and has been investigated as a thrombolytic agent.
Its oxide is used in the control rods of some nuclear reactors.
Measurement of the polarization of fluorescent light from solutions or microscopic specimens.
Serologic testing usually relies upon the demonstration of antibodies to group-specific antigens.
Lysophosphatidylcholine(26:0), or LysoPC(26:0), is a lysophospholipid (LyP) and diagnostic marker for X-linked adrenoleukodystrophy (X-ALD), peroxisomal biogenesis disorders (PBD) and single enzyme defects (SED) of peroxisomal fatty acid oxidation.
The pattern of individual chromosomes is called chromosome banding, whereas the study of whole sets of chromosomes is known as karyology.
The shift between high and low adhesion is controlled by protein kinase C. Desmosomes also regulate cell proliferation, differentiation and morphogenesis by sending signals to molecules.
The bacteria are transmitted to humans by the bite of infected ticks of the Ixodes genus.
It is a vine-like, perennial herb but is cultivated as an annual.
Methasterone is an oral anabolic steroid that was never marketed through legitimate channels for medicinal purposes.
In the kidneys it is filtered at the glomerulus, secreted in the proximal tubule and reabsorbed in the distal tubule.
HLH is caused by mutations in the XIAP gene, which encodes the XIAP protein.
Overexposure to an organophosphate pesticide is typically caused by inhalation, dermal contact, or ingestion of contaminated foods.
Similar to sterol esters and stanol esters, stigmasterol inhibits the absorption of cholesterol from the diet.
8(9)-Cholestenol is one of the precursors to cholesterol in the cholesterol biosynthetic pathway.
In clinical use it is often abbreviated TRI or TMP; its common laboratory abbreviation is W.
The cytokines have some similar actions to the Growth Factors but Growth Factors regulate proliferation of non-immune cells.
Testing for IgE antibodies may be used to help diagnose an allergic disease or the cause of an anaphylactic episode in a patient.
Anti-TIF1-gamma autoantibodies have been associated with adult- and juvenile-onset dermatomyositis (DM), and particularly with cancer-associated DM.
As a relevant indoor allergen, Ficus benjamina ranks third after mites and pets and before molds in a German clinic.
The effective regurgitant orifice area (EROA) is the size of the defect where the valve leaflets are not aligning normally (coaptation defect).
It is made from the latex of the full grown but unripe Papaya fruit; it is also present in the leaves and trunk, and is found even during various stages of ripening after incision of the unripe fruit.
3-Hydroxydodecenoylcarnitine is a primary marker for Very long-chain acyl-CoA dehydrogenase deficiency.
The M channel is formed by the association of the protein encoded by this gene and a related protein encoded by the KCNQ3 gene, both integral membrane proteins.
A 1:1 molar complex of heme or hematin and albumin formed after the dissociation of methemoglobin into heme or hematin and globin in plasma.
DOG1 is a protein found to be selectively expressed in Gastrointestinal stromal tumors (GIST).
Ebola is transmitted through direct contact with the blood or bodily fluids of an infected symptomatic person or though exposure to objects (such as needles) that have been contaminated with infected secretions.
RBC target cells are associated with hemoglobin C (HbC) disease, asplenia, liver disease, thalassemia and severe iron deficiency anemia.
The polymyxins & colistin are the last line of defense used to treat multidrug resistant gram-negative bacteria so the emergence of the mcr genes in Enterobacteriaceae, including Klebsiella pneumoniae, is onerous and challenging to public health.
From 1986-1990, it was called HIV and since 1991, the two species have been designated HIV-1 and HIV-2.
The full genome of the 2019-nCoV was first posted by Chinese health authorities in GenBank, the NIH genetic sequence database, and in the Global Initiative on Sharing All Influenza Data (GISAI) portal.
Antibodies to phase I and II antigens have been known to persist for months or years after initial infection.
It is used in asthma and cardiac failure and to delay absorption of local anesthetics.
For this study, a positive breath test result was the definitive diagnosis of lactose intolerance.
Carnosine is a dipeptide metabolite of the amino acids Beta-alanine and histidine.
This gene may play a role in development of the liver, kidney, and intestines.
Glucagon, a peptide hormone secreted by the pancreas, raises blood glucose levels.
The main function of phosphorus is in the formation of bones and teeth, and it also plays an important role in how the body uses carbohydrates and fats.
C1q has binding sites for antibodies (the heavy chain of IMMUNOGLOBULIN G or IMMUNOGLOBULIN M).
Various anticoagulant drugs can be used to prevent clot formation and consumption of platelets during surgery.
While niobium dust is an eye and skin irritant and a potential fire hazard, elemental niobium on a larger scale is physiologically inert (and thus hypoallergenic) and harmless.
Carisoprodol (N-isopropylmeprobamate, Soma, ingredient of Soma Compound) is a carbamate derivative first synthesized in 1959 and used clinically as a muscle relaxant and sedative.
The Japanese pioneered eel culture more than 150 years ago.
Vaccination against B. pertussis can prevent disease; however, B. parapertussis, another species of Bordetella, also causes illness that is often indistinguishable from pertussis, and the B. pertussis vaccine does not protect against B. parapertussis infection.
As a neurotoxin, Al is considered has been linked to the development of neurodegenerative diseases, including Alzheimer's disease (AD), dementia, Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis (ALS)
NO2 monitors detect the amount of NO2 present in the circuit.
Other species of Bumble bee include Bombus impatiens, B. occidentalis, B. canariensis and Bombus pennsylvanicus (American Bumble Bee).
Instead of being synthesized at full length, however, IGFBP3 is cleaved thus preventing it from binding and sequestering IGFs.
The virus is ubiquitous among swine throughout the world and is enzootic in most herds that have been tested.
Most of these disorders are autosomal recessively inherited, however a few are X-linked recessively inherited, such as Fabry disease and Hunter syndrome (MPS II).
Both genes are expressed from the RD1 region of the bacterial genome and play a key role in the virulence of the infection.
They are associated with inherited giant platelet disorders (IGPDs), a group of rare disorders characterized by thrombocytopenia, giant platelets, and a tendency to bleeding.
Didanosine is a Nucleoside Reverse Transcriptase Inhibitor(NRTI) antiretroviral drug used in the treatment of HIV.
A plant species of the family Fabaceae that produces peanuts, which contain protein, oil and lectins.
MDR-TB are defined to be resistant to at least isoniazid and rifampicin.
The enzyme citrate synthase (E.C. 2.3.3.1) exists in nearly all living cells and stands as a pace-making enzyme in the first step of the Citric Acid Cycle (or Krebs Cycle).
Primary uses are as an antiemetic treatment of nausea and vertigo, and as a highly-potent typical antipsychotic, 10-20x more potent than chlorpromazine.
In a recent review of atopic food allergy, cheese was the third most important allergen involved in 12.9% of 402 predominantly adults with confirmed food allergy.
Therefore, for area as measured by cardiac catheterization, the formula is A=F/√2gh.
The allergenic determinants (epitopes) of cephalosporins such as cefaclor are not fully known.
Rape is an annual plant similar to Turnip and Rutabaga.
However, adverse drug reactions (ADRs) are rare when it is administered correctly.
Sindbis fever is most common in South and East Africa, Egypt, Israel, Philippines and parts of Australia.
Elevations in plasma homocysteine are commonly found as a result of vitamin deficiencies, polymorphisms of enzymes of methionine metabolism, and renal disease.
Sotalol may cause dizziness, excessive tiredness, headaches, constipation, swelling in the lower extremities, and chest pain.
Its mechanism of action is not fully understood, but it appears to block reuptake of monoaminergic neurotransmitters into presynaptic terminals.
Types include Prostaglandin E1 also termed Alprostadil and Prostaglandin E2 also termed Dinoprostone
Danazol has been used for other indications, including management of menorrhagia, fibrocystic breast disease, immune thrombocytopenic purpura, breast pain (mastodynia) and hereditary angioedema.
Buckwheat is grown almost worldwide, but is especially common in China and Iraq.
The blood group 8 (BG8) antigen is used in immune stains to identify pulmonary adenocarcinoma (PACA) or thymic carcinoma and to exclude epithelioid mesotheloma (EM).
Congenital hypothyroidism was the second disease widely added in the 1970s.
Methoxychlor is an organochlorine pesticide that has a comparatively low toxicity and transitory persistence in biological systems.
There are only 2 species found in humans: Trichomonas vaginalis, a pathogen generally living inside the human urinogenital tract, and Trichomonas tenax, an organism found in the oral cavity of humans, cats, and dogs.
Apolipoproteins are a family of proteins involved in cholesterol transport and metabolism.
The distance from the most anterior portion of the forehead to soft tissue Glabella, perpendicular to the Frankfort horizontal plane
This protein plays a role in diverse cellular functions, including message targeting and intracellular calcium buffering.
Some dipeptides are known to have physiological or cell-signaling effects although most are simply short-lived intermediates on their way to specific amino acid degradation pathways following further proteolysis.
Hydrazine is an inorganic chemical compound with the formula N2H4.
While its effectiveness is widely debated, synephrine has gained significant popularity as an alternative to ephedrine, a related substance which has been made illegal or restricted in many countries due to health risks and its use as a precursor in the illicit manufacturing of methamphetamine.
PCV2d was initially isolated in pig herds in China, but has since been identified as the primary genotype of PCV2 infections in pigs in the United States, South Korea and other countries, possibly surpassing PCV2b that had previously been the dominant PCV2 genotype infecting pigs worldwide since 2003.
Popular as an accompaniment to pasta (see), on which it is served grated.
The basophil nucleus is segmented and the chromatin is condensed or smudged.
Slender and Southern ragweed were considerably less active, indicating that they lacked allergenic groupings possessed by the other species.
Coa is present on the red cells in 99.9 % of most populations, with a slightly lower incidence in Northern Europeans.
2-Methylacetoacetic acid is a metabolite that has an increased excretion in patients with acetoacetyl-CoA thiolase deficiency.
The FLT3 gene (fms-related tyrosine kinase 3) is located on chromosome 13q12.
Increased titers of CASPR2 antibodies were first discovered in patients with Morvan's syndrome.
In one study, patients with the connective tissue disorder systemic sclerosis were found to have significantly higher TPFR and TPFR/R-R interval values compared to controls.
Forms the polymerase active center together with the second largest subunit.
It is known to act as a positive allosteric modulator of the AMPA receptor.
Interstitial collagenase (matrix metalloproteinase 1, MMP-1) is a protein encoded by the MMP1 gene.
Symptoms include fatigue, lack of appetite, restlessness, and pale skin.
Toxicity may be due to the inactivation of mitochondrial 30S ribosomes in host cells.
It is a component of the cell plasma membrane that modulates cell signal transduction events.
Synthetic cannabinoids are psychoactive designer drugs derived of natural herbs sprayed with synthetic chemicals that, when consumed, allegedly mimic the pleasurable effects of cannabis.
Symptoms often present as a 3 day fever with abrupt onset, headache, muscular pain, photophobia, and nausea .
Drug levels are measured to monitor compliance or identify illicit opioid drug use.
Lasalocid (brand names: Bovatec and Avatec) is an ionophore antibiotic obtained from Streptomyces lasaliensi.
This colorless liquid is poorly soluble in water but miscible with most organic solvents.
A slightly acid milk food produced by fermentation due to the combined action of Lactobacillus acidophilus and Streptococcus thermophilus.
LysoPC(22:0) is measured in dried blood spots (DBS) and used in conjunction with other Lysophosphatidylcholines for the diagnosis, monitoring and treatment of X-ALD other peroxisomal disorders.
Hepatitis B virus basal core promoter (BCP) mutation can indicate a patient's risk of developing hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC).
This protein probably exists as a dimer (pair) in the red cell membrane.
Occupational asthma, lung function deficits, and elevated levels of respiratory symptoms in workers exposed to the wood dust have been demonstrated.
Time in hours between current event, such as a glucose test and last meal.
al. (1996) reported increased ratios of pterin to isoxanthopterin in patients with hereditary xanthinuria and molybdenum cofactor deficiency.
White bean may uncommonly induce symptoms of food allergy in sensitised individuals.
Thiamine, also known as vitamin B1, is an essential nutrient obtained from food.
The mutation may be conserved in human evolution because it may provide a hyper-immune response to infectious disease.
It was eradicated in the USA by 1978, according to the United States Department of Agriculture.
Other ticks may transmit the virus in a wider geographic area, and there is some concern that I.scapularis (also called I.dammini ), a competent vector in the laboratory, may become involved as it becomes more prominent in the United States.
It is also found in the essential oil of rosemary (Rosmarinus officinalis).
The PAH gene (phenylalanine hydroxylase) is located on chromosome 12q22-q24.2.
Alterations in this region have been associated with the Beckwith-Wiedemann syndrome, Wilms tumor, rhabdomyosarcoma, adrenocortical carcinoma, and lung, ovarian, and breast cancer.
Users addicted to MA experience withdrawal symptoms that include dysphoria, fatigue, insomnia and an increased appetite.
Normally no treatment is necessary, but for severe cases medication is available.
Pepsin is one of three principal protein-degrading, or proteolytic, enzymes in the digestive system, the other two being chymotrypsin and trypsin.
The 17p13.3 chromosome region has been associated with at least two different syndromes: Miller-Dieker lissencephaly syndrome is a result of contiguous gene deletion in the 17p13.3 region, while chromosome 17p13.3 duplication syndrome is a result of contiguous gene duplication in the same area.
Foodborne botulism is a public health emergency because the contaminated food may still be available to other persons besides the patient.
A nonreducing disaccharide composed of glucose and fructose linked via their anomeric carbons.
Species of American house dust mite, in the family pyroglyphidae
Amiloride is a potassium-sparing diuretic, first approved for use in 1967, used in the management of hypertension and congestive heart failure.
The need for Vitamin C can be increased by the use of asprin, oral contraceptives, tetracyclines and other medications.
Gabapentin, brand name Horizant or Neurontin, is an anticonvulsant used to control certain types of seizures, relieve the pain of postherpetic neuralgia, and treat restless leg syndrome.
Increased levels of Inhibin A are seen in women with fetuses affected by Down's syndrome and are measured as part of some second trimester maternal screens.
Free T4 is a sensitive test for thyroid function and is increased with hyperthyroidism and decreased with hypothyroidism.
TRH also stimulates secretion of Prolactin, Growth Hormone in Acromegaly, and ACTH in Cushing's and Nelson's Syndromes.
When the host cell lyses, the mature virus are released.
C-X-C chemokine receptor type 5 (CXCR5) also known as Burkitt lymphoma receptor 1 (BLR1) is a G protein-coupled seven transmembrane receptor for chemokine CXCL13 (also known as BLC) and belongs to the CXC chemokine receptor family.
Two main clinical diagnostic uses are: 1) a second trimester screening test for fetal neural tube defects using amniotic fluid and, 2) in the general population, to detect past exposure to organophosphate insecticides with resultant inhibition of the enzyme using blood.
It is further decomposed to beta-alanine via the enzyme beta-ureidopropionase.
The serum-peritoneal fluid effusion glucose gradient is measured as part a differential diagnosis of exudates and transudates and bacterial peritonitis.
The etiologic agent of plague in man, rats, ground squirrels, and other rodents.
The International Classification for Intraocular Retinoblastoma (ICRB) is the newer retinoblastoma staging system, which takes into account what has been learned about the disease in recent decades.
Because cystatin C is supposed to be processed by the kidneys, an excess amount of cystatin C could be a sign of kidney disease/malfunction.
A-SAAs are secreted during the acute phase of inflammation and are implicated in several chronic inflammatory diseases, such as amyloidosis, atherosclerosis, and rheumatoid arthritis.
Keratin is the key of structural material making up the outer layer of human skin.
The protein regulates rDNA transcription and also promotes rRNA synthesis.
The queen is 2-2.7 cm long, while the workers are 1½-2 cm.
The SCN1A gene (sodium channel, voltage gated, type I alpha subunit) is located on chromosome 2q24.3.
This bright green annual herb is now cultivated almost throughout the world.
ATPases are a class of enzymes that catalyze the decomposition of adenosine triphosphate (ATP) into adenosine diphosphate (ADP) and a free phosphate ion.
Most of the natural fatty acids have an even number of carbon atoms, because their biosynthesis involves acetyl-CoA, a coenzyme carrying a two-carbon-atom group.
Normally there are about 30 repeats, the full mutation generally involves over 200 repeats.
L. borgpetersenii is found worldwide but only recently was identified in Australia, after which it quickly became a predominant pathogen.
The outer capsid glycoprotein VP7 is believed to be important for the attachment to and entry in the host cell.
Elevated levels of galectin-3 have been found to be significantly associated with higher risk of death in both acute decompensated heart failure and chronic heart failure populations
The TGFBR1 gene (transforming growth factor, beta receptor 1) is located on chromosome 9q22.
Translocations of the PAX8/PPARG genes play a role in the pathogenesis of some follicular thyroid carcinomas and follicular-variant papillary thyroid carcinoma.
Anacardium occidentale (Ana o) 3 is a 2S albumin and a major allergen of cashew nuts that elicits an allergic response in 81% of people with a sensitivity to cashews.
In the US, the prevalence of the disease is about 1 in 5000, mostly affecting Americans of Sub-Sahara African descent.
Diagnostic tests for NV include those that detect the viral RNA or a viral antigen in stool.
A urinary anti-infective agent effective against most gram-positive and gram-negative organisms.
It is a major cellular protein of mature enterocytes and goblet cells and is specifically found in the gastric and intestinal mucosa.
Treatment is getting urinary alkalinization to a pH> 6 to 6.5 with oral citrate, which will prevent uric acid crystallization and dissolve pre existing uric acid stones.
Mutations in the BRCA1 gene are responsible for approximately 40% of inherited breast cancers and more than 80% of inherited breast and ovarian cancers.
Purine nucleoside phosphorylase (also known as PNPase) is an enzyme involved in purine metabolism.
FHBL is associated with mutations in the APOB gene that result in truncated forms of apolipoprotein B.
Aromatic (hydrocarbon) solvents comprised wholly or primarily of aromatic hydrocarbon compounds.
A histamine H1 antagonist used as an antiemetic, antitussive, for dermatoses and pruritus, for hypersensitivity reactions, as a hypnotic, an antiparkinson, and as an ingredient in common cold preparations.
B. atrophaeus is used as a biological indicator for efficacy testing and sterilization control.
Fibroblast growth factor 21 (FGF21) is a member of the fibroblast growth factor family of proteins, which are involved in physiologic processes including cell growth and differentiation, and embryonic development.
An apparent pseudogene of this gene is present on chromosome 8.
Lactyl lactate was originally reported to be found in patients with inherited metabolic diseases.
Bartonella bacilliformis is a proteobacterium, Gram negative aerobic, pleomorphic, flagellated, motile, coccobacillary, 2-3 μm large and 0.2-0.5 μm wide and facultative intracellular bacterium.
Acetyl norfentanyl is the primary metabolite of acetyl fentanyl via hepatic cytochrome P450.
The most common sources of Legionella and Legionnaires' disease outbreaks are cooling towers (used in industrial cooling water systems), domestic hot water systems,and spas.
All three forms of vitamin B6 are heterocyclic organic compounds.
(Kumps A, Duez P, Mardens Y. Metabolic, Nutritional, Iatrogenic, and Artifactual Sources of Urinary Organic Acids: A Comprehensive Table.
Tissues that depend highly on aerobic respiration, such as the central nervous system and the heart, are particularly affected.
A member of the California group of arboviruses (family bunyaviridae) causing fever, severe headache, and nausea in humans in North America.
The North American species called Jackrabbit are actually Hares (having longer ears and legs, and giving birth to already furred and open-eyed young), as is the Snowshoe Rabbit.
Such antagonists include (but are not limited to) specific antibodies that target the molecule of interest, which act only in a neutralizing manner.
Very-low-density lipoprotein (VLDL) is a type of lipoprotein made by the liver.
The value of tumour marker CA 125 in surgical pathology Histopathology 11 (3), 287-294 doi:10.1111/j.1365-2559.1987.tb02633.
For example, cross-reactivity among Chamomile tea extract, pollen of Matricaria chamomilla, A. vulgaris (Mugwort), and A. trifida (Giant ragweed) was demonstrated by an ELISA-inhibition study (7).
But food allergy to ingesting the fruit of this plant is uncommon; reactions have been attributed to cross-reactivity with Tomato and grass pollen allergens in 1 individual, and with Parietaria pollen allergen in 5 cases
3-dimensional (3D) printed models can be created using various 3D technologies, including inkjet, stereolithography, and fused-deposition modeling.
Brand names include Monodox®, Periostat®, Vibramycin®, Vibra-Tabs®, Doryx®, Vibrox®, Adoxa®, Doxyhexal® and Atridox® (topical doxycycline hyclate for gum disease.
The GCH1 gene (GTP cyclohydrolase 1) is located on chromosome 14q22.1-q22.2.
Ascorbic acid is an electron donor for enzymes involved in collagen hydroxylation, biosynthesis of carnitine and norepinephrine, tyrosine metabolism, and amidation of peptide hormones.
PCP, also known as "angel dust", causes psychosis and may result in violent behavior.
Though CASPR2 antibodies have been found in 10% of patients with idiopathic cerebellar ataxia, no specific disease has been attributed to patients with the rare occurrence of positive antibodies for CASPR2 with cerebellar involvement.
They represent a significant sensitization risk also for less atopic individuals exposed due to their often high concentration in the air.
Various breakpoints within the BCR and ABL1 genes have been described.
Europe is the largest producer with Italy in the lead.
Fatty acids are carboxylic acids with a long aliphatic tail, and naturally occurring fatty acids usually have an even number of carbon atoms.
Dicoumarol (International Nonproprietary Name) or dicumarol (United States Adopted Name) is an anticoagulant that functions as a Vitamin K antagonist (similar to warfarin, for which it was the inspiration).
Due to concerns about cardiotoxicity and retinopathy at high doses it has been withdrawn in many countries (including the UK and Australia) and in other countries it is not commonly prescribed, reserved for patients who have failed to respond to, or have contraindications for, more widely used antipsychotics.
Typing methods can be based on phenotypic or genetic characteristics.
Nutmeg butter is 75% trimyristin, the triglyceride of myristic acid.
Gonioscopy is the use of a goniolens (also known as a gonioscope) in conjunction with a slit lamp or operating microscope to gain a view of the iridocorneal angle.
ImmuKnow measures early response to stimulation by detecting intracellular ATP synthesis in CD4 cells selected from blood by monoclonal antibody-coated magnetic beads.
One suggests that A. oryzae is a domesticated species not found in nature.
LysoPC(20:0) levels are measured in dried blood spots (DBS) and are used with Lysophosphatidylcholine(26:0) levels as a ratio (LysoPC26:0/LysoPC20:0) to monitor increases in LysoPC(26:0) accumulation in patients with X-linked adrenoleukodystrophy (X-ALD).
Deletions in this gene may contribute to the etiology of velo-cardio-facial syndrome and DiGeorge syndrome.
It is used mainly to treat complex partial, simple partial, generalized tonic-clonic seizures, myoclonic, and akinetic seizures and has been a valuable alternative to propranolol in the treatment of essential tremor.
A clear, colorless, viscous organic solvent and diluent used in pharmaceutical preparations.
Treatment for BSI and other infections caused by Gram-negative bacteria has become more complex with the emergence and spread of antimicrobial resistance in Enterobacterales, particularly Enterobacteriaceae.
Acarbose is an anti-diabetic drug used to treat type 2 diabetes mellitus and, in some countries, prediabetes.
Allergy to cat dander and pork meat, also referred to as the pork/cat syndrome, was shown to be mediated by IgE antibodies recognizing cat and pig serum albumin.
Homocystine and homocysteine-cysteine mixed disulfide account for >98% of total homocysteine in plasma from healthy individuals.
A plant species of the family apiaceae widely cultivated for the edible yellow-orange root.
The flesh is pale green in color, while the smooth peel ranges from greenish to yellow.
Coxiella refers to a genus of Gram-negative bacteria in the family Coxiellaceae.
Lack of lysine (hypolysinemia) can result in niacin deficiency and cause pellagra.
High density lipoprotein (HDL) is the smallest and densest of the five main lipoproteins which, in addition to HDL, include chylomicrons, very low density lipoprotein, intermediate density lipoprotein and low density lipoprotein.
Gonadotropin-releasing hormone 1 (GNRH1) is a peptide hormone responsible for the release of FSH and LH from the anterior pituitary.
The UBE3A gene (ubiquitin protein ligase E3A) is located on chromosome 15q11.2.
Two alpha chains plus two beta chains constitute HbA, which in normal adult life comprises about 97% of the total hemoglobin; alpha chains combine with delta chains to constitute HbA-2, which with HbF (fetal hemoglobin) makes up the remaining 3% of adult hemoglobin.
The housefly (also house fly, house-fly or common housefly), Musca domestica, is a fly of the Brachycera suborder.
False positivity in such KRT19 RT-PCR studies include: illegitimate transcription (expression of small amounts of KRT19 mRNA by tissues in which it has no real physiological role), haematological disorders (KRT19 induction in peripheral blood cells by cytokines and growth factors, which circulate at higher concentrations in inflammatory conditions and neutropenia), the presence of pseudogenes (two KRT19 pseudogenes, KRT19a and KRT19b, have been identified, which have significant sequence homology to KRT19 mRNA.
Acenocoumarol is an anticoagulant that functions as a vitamin K antagonist (like warfarin).
The intron 1 and 22 inversion mutations in the F8 gene account for approximately 50% of mutations associated with severe hemophilia A (HA) cases in males.
This interferon was originally called macrophage-activating factor, a term now used to describe a larger family of proteins to which IFN-γ belongs
Pentane is an organic compound with the formula C5H12 - that is, an alkane with five carbon atoms.
A margin is considered 'positive' if it contains neoplastic cells and indicates that additional treatment may be needed besides the excision.
Ephedrine is commonly used as a stimulant, appetite suppressant, concentraton aid, decongestant and to treat hypotension associated with regional anaesthesia.
Related proteins in barley and rye are also involved in the development of celiac disease.
A deoxyribonuclease (DNase, for short) is any enzyme that catalyzes the hydrolytic cleavage of phosphodiester linkages in the DNA backbone.
Visceral fat (abdominal fat) is located inside the abdominal cavity, packed between the organs (stomach, liver, intestines, kidneys, etc.).
A genus of trematode flukes belonging to the family Schistosomatidae.
The cord blood is blood contained in the umbilical vessels (UMBILICAL CORD) at the time of delivery.
This gene encodes a protein containing a SET domain, 2 LXXLL motifs, 3 nuclear translocation signals (NLSs), 4 plant homeodomain (PHD) finger regions, and a proline-rich region.
Lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) is an enzyme present in a wide variety of organisms, including plants and animals.
D. pteronyssinus can also act as a trigger factor for atopic dermatitis in sensitive patients.
Recombinant non-glycosylated protein produced in an E. coli strain strain carrying a cloned cDNA encoding Prunus persica allergen
Intestinal alkaline phosphatase (I-ALP) isoenzymes are produced by cells lining the intestines.
Yellowjackets are black-and-yellow wasps of the genus Vespula or Dolichovespula (some can be black-and-white, the most notable of these being the bald-faced hornet, Dolichovespula maculata).
Its taste is detectable in concentrations as low as 1 ppm.
Reports in the literature have not differentiated which of the three is predominantly responsible for adverse symptoms, and as with other mammalian allergens, the assumption is reasonable that all three contribute.
VS is present in up to 50% of people of African descent, but is very rare in people of European and Asian descent.
The chemical compound 1,2-dichloroethane, commonly known by its old name of ethylene dichloride (EDC), is a chlorinated hydrocarbon, mainly used to produce vinyl chloride monomer (VCM, chloroethene), the major precursor for PVC production.
A cream precipitate forms that disappears in concentrated ammonia solution.
The "p" stands for para, identifying the location of the methyl groups as across from one another.
Elevated levels occur with fatty oxidation defects including Beta-oxidation defects(MAD,MCAD,SCAD,VLCAD, SCHAD, LCHAD/TFP), HMG-CoA lyase deficiency, systemic carnitine deficiency, succinic semialdehyde DH deficiency, CPT II deficiency, peroxisomal diseases, glycogen storage disorders I & II, lactic acidosis, and fructose intolerance.
Deletions on the long arm of chromosome Y are known to be associated with male infertility, frequently due to non-obstructive idiopathic azoospermia or severe oligozoospermia.
The active sympathomimetic hormone from the adrenal medulla in most species.
Neural Cell Adhesion Molecule (NCAM, also the cluster of differentiation CD56) is a homophilic binding glycoprotein expressed on the surface of neurons, glia, skeletal muscle and natural killer cells.
This disease had its earliest origins in the town of Powassan, Ontario, found in a young boy who eventually died from it.
The soluble form of the IL-2 receptor (sIL-2R) does not have cell membrane and cytoplasmic components but retains the ability to bind IL-2.
Valine is a primary marker for Maple syrup urine disease, Valinemia
The enzyme encoded by this gene catalyzes the first 2 steps, and at least 1 subsequent step, in the conversion of tyrosine to melanin.
First identified in 1995 in ticks from Japan, B. miyamotoi has since been detected in two species of North American ticks, the black-legged or "deer" tick (Ixodes scapularis) and the western black-legged tick (Ixodes pacificus).
Erucic acid is broken down long-chain acyl-coenzyme A (CoA) dehydrogenase, which is produced in the liver.
The majority of mutations in ENG and ACVRL1 are point mutations, which are identified by sequencing with a detection rate of approximately 60% to 80% of mutations involved in HHT.
The encoded preproprotein is proteolytically processed in the trans-Golgi network to generate two polypeptide chains that heterodimerize to form the mature cell-surface receptor.
Hexachlorocyclopentadiene is an organochlorine compound that is a precursor to several pesticides.
Variant lymphocytes (also called reactive or atypical) are a type of abnormal lymphocyte found in the peripheral blood.
The American Society of Echocardiography recommends the following wall motion scoring system: 1) normal or hyperkinetic; 2) hypokinetic (reduced thickening); 3) akinetic (absent or negligible thickening, e.g., scar); and 4) dyskinetic (systolic thinning or stretching, e.g., aneurysm).
The PRKAR1A gene (protein kinase cAMP-dependent type I regulatory subunit alpha) is located on chromosome 17q24.2.
Pinus radiata (family Pinaceae) is known in English as Monterey Pine or the Insignis Pine in some parts of the world (mainly in the USA, Canada and the British Isles), and Radiata Pine in others (primarily Australia and New Zealand).
A propionic acid nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug anti-inflammatory analgesic and antipyretic.
People with dopamine beta hydroxylase deficiency may have a paradoxical response to NRI antidepressant medication such as Edronax -- they may experience more depression, less energy, and become more sleepy.
First cultivated by the Incas, the potato (Solanum tuberosum of the genus Solanium) is a perennial plant of the Solanaceae, or nightshade, family, commonly grown for its starchy tuber.
Etravirine is marketed by Tibotec, a subsidiary of Johnson & Johnson.
This organism was first discovered at Fort Chaffee, Arkansas, when blood samples from suspected human ehrlichiosis patients were studied.
Patients often have high blood pressure with a low renin and low aldosterone blood level.
Several microangiopathic diseases, including disseminated intravascular coagulation and thrombotic microangiopathies, generate fibrin strands that sever RBC as they try to move past a thrombus, creating schistocytes.
RSV is spread through contact with respiratory droplets, contact with the patient and contact with contaminated surfaces.
The aPTT screen to confirm ratio is calculated as Screen aPTT/Confirm aPTT, and the aPTT percent correction is calculated as x100.
The sphere is the additional focusing power (as a positive or negative number) needed to focus the visual image on the retina.
The general population risk of Edwards syndrome is 1 out of 5,000 live births, and the risk for Edwards syndrome increases with increasing maternal age.
Cathine, also known as d-norpseudoephedrine, is a psychoactive drug of the phenethylamine and amphetamine chemical classes which acts as a stimulant.
Notably, the indolic amino acid tryptophan is the precursor of the neurotransmitter serotonin.
It is produced in the liver as a response to infection, and is part of many other factors termed acute phase proteins.
Due to its resistance to both hydrolysis in the intestinal tract and denaturation by heat, Ana o 3 is considered a very potent allergen.
Porcine reproductive and respiratory syndrome virus (PRRSV), also referred to as Blue-Ear Pig disease, causes significant disease and can lead to reproductive failures such as weak fetuses, mummified fetuses, abortions or still borns.
Entecavir (abbreviated ETV) is an oral antiviral drug used in the treatment of hepatitis B infection.
Allocystathionine is a product of enzyme cystathionine synthetase which converts homocysteine to allocystathionine in the sulfur metabolism pathway.
Narcotic analgesic related to codeine, but more potent and more addicting by weight.
It is excreted in bile and urine along with other another methadone metabolite, EMPD.
The deficiency in folate leads to increased ratio of deoxyuracilmonophosphates (dUMP)/deoxythyminemonophosphates (dTMP) and uracil misincorporation into DNA and eventually low production of DNA.
In patients with known or expected cancer, other tests and procedures must be considered for diagnosis and patient management.
This gene encodes a member of the hydroxymethylbilane synthase superfamily.
The HSD17B4 gene (hydroxysteroid (17-beta) dehydrogenase 4) is located on chromosome 5q21.
This colorless, flammable liquid with a characteristic smell is mainly used as a solvent.
Justus von Liebig in 1829 showed that it differed from benzoic acid, and in 1839 determined its constitution, while in 1873 Victor Dessaignes (Ann. 87, p. 325) synthesized it by the action of benzoyl chloride on zinc glycocollide.
Different forms of acid alpha-glucosidase are obtained by proteolytic processing.
EDDP (2-ethylidene-1,5-dimethyl1-3,3-diphenylpyrrolidine) is a primary metabolite of methadone, a synthetic opioid used for the treatment of opioid dependence.
Bordetella pertussis is a species of Bordetella that causes pertussis, also known as whooping cough.
its species are commonly known as Bermuda grass or dog's tooth grass.
Cardiolipin is a double phospholipid because it has four fatty acid tails, instead of the usual two.
This gene was identified by its translocation in a case of mucosa-associated lymphoid tissue (MALT) lymphoma.
The majority of TCRs have an alpha and a beta chain, but a small subset have gamma and delta chains.
Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
Nearly all the cumene that is produced as a pure compound on an industrial scale is converted to cumene hydroperoxide, which is an intermediate in the synthesis of other industrially important chemicals such as phenol and acetone.
subtilis, B. licheniformis, B. amyloliquefaciens, B. atrophaeus, B. mojavensis, B. vallismortis, B. subtilis subsp.
Energy expenditure is calculated based on the patient's oxygen consumption and carbon dioxide production.
Symptoms of nickel toxicity (observed under experimental conditions) include depressed growth, feed intake and feed efficiency, hematological changes, and possible kidney damage.(Mineral Tolerance of Animals: Second Revised Edition, 2005)
The ristocetin cofactor activity can be measured using platelet aggregation or platelet agglutination.
Molybdenosis in animals results in secondary copper deficiency and presents with a variety of symptoms, including diarrhea, anemia, anorexia, depigmentation on hair or wool, neurologic abnormalities, impaired reproduction, and premature death.(Mineral Tolerance of Animals: Second Revised Edition, 2005)
Nitrogen Balance = Nitrogen intake - Nitrogen loss Blood urea nitrogen can be used in estimating nitrogen balance, as can the urea concentration in urine and feces.
This gene encodes a magnesium transporter that associates with early endosomes and the cell surface in a variety of neuronal and epithelial cells.
It is found in the urine of pregnant (36-40 weeks of gestation) and nonpregnant women and in amniotic fluid from nearly fullterm pregnant women.
Daclatasvir (also called DCV, formerly called BMS-790052, tradename Daklinza) is a first-generation, direct-acting antiviral (DAA) is a zinc-binding and proline-rich hydrophilic phosphoprotein that plays a key role in hepatitis C virus RNA replication.
Quantification of VEGF-D can be used to distinguish LAM from other cystic lung diseases.
These digestive problems can lead to failure to thrive and malnutrition.
Non-HDL cholesterol has been suggested as a better predictor of cardiovascular risk than LDL alone.
Japanese cedar pollen is the most common allergen causing seasonal pollen allergy in Japan.
The degradation of this protein, which is triggered by its CDK dependent phosphorylation and subsequent ubiquitination by SCF complexes, is required for the cellular transition from quiescence to the proliferative state.
Butane is a hydrocarbon with the formula C4H10, that is, an alkane with four carbon atoms.
It can also negatively impact fertility and lactation over time.
It works by increasing the amounts of serotonin and norepinephrine, natural substances in the brain that help maintain mental balance.
It is a tall herbaceous perennial plant growing 1-2 m (rarely 2.5 m) tall, with a woody root.
A genus of the family CORONAVIRIDAE characterized by enveloped, peplomer-bearing particles containing an elongated tubular nucleocapsid with helical symmetry.
The primary effect of PCV2 is postweaning multisystemic wasting syndrome (PMWS).
PDH deficiency is a common cause of lactic acidosis in newborns and often presents with severe lethargy, poor feeding, tachypnea, and cases of death have occurred.
In humans, the gene is located on the q arm of chromosome 11.
Interferon Gamma is a cytokine produced by T helper cells as part of the immune response to various stimuli.
Barbiturates were also used to treat sleep disorders and were the first drugs to effectively treat epileptic seizures.
Heat-labile Vi (virulance) is a surface polysaccharide capsular antigen found in Salmonella typhi and some other Salmonella strains.
Vision worse than that is often expressed qualitatively as: CF- Count Fingers HM- Hand Motion LP- Light Perception NLP- No Light Perception
Codons associated with susceptibility/resistance to scrapie include codon 112, 136, 141, 154 and 171.
Cayenne pepper is used in many exotic, spicy food dishes to add more spice.
The Gly380Arg mutation in the FGFR3 (fibroblast growth factor receptor 3) gene causes achondroplasia, the most common short-limbed skeletal dysplasia inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern.
Individuals with Gilbert syndrome may experience transient elevations in unconjugated plasma bilirubin in response to various triggers (e.g., fasting, infection, or medications).
The cellular constituents are: red blood cells, which carry respiratory gases and give it its red color, white blood cells (leukocytes), which fight disease, and platelets, cell fragments which play an important part in the clotting of the blood.
It is also homologous to a family of chromosomal adherins with broad roles in sister chromatid cohesion, chromosome condensation, and DNA repair.
It is a mixture of compounds from STREPTOGRAMIN GROUP A: pristinamycin IIA and IIB and from STREPTOGRAMIN GROUP B: pristinamycin IA, pristinamycin IB, pristinamycin IC.
Most cases of cri-du-chat syndrome are not inherited; the deletion occurs as a random or de novo event.
A Peripheral Blood Mononuclear Cell (PBMC) is a blood cell having a round nucleus, such as a lymphocyte or a monocyte.
This nuclear gene encodes a mitochondrial protein tyrosine aminotransferase which is present in the liver and catalyzes the conversion of L-tyrosine into p-hydroxyphenylpyruvate.
Dimethoate is also sprayed onto farm buildings to eradicate house flies and used on livestock against botflies.
The number of circulating CD34 is also useful in the diagnosis of myeloproliferative disorders and predicting which will transform to malignancy.
Newborn screening is the process of testing newborn babies for treatable genetic, endocrinologic, metabolic and hematologic diseases.
The BTK gene (Bruton agammaglobulinemia tyrosine kinase) is located on chromosome Xq21.33-q22.
Darunavir (Prezista) is a drug used to treat HIV infection.
Bioactive compounds are extranutritional constituents that typically occur in small quantities in foods, and that vary widely in their chemical structure and function.
Early symptoms of poisoning include impaired judgement or ability to reason.
Chrysothamnus nauseosus, also known as rubber rabbitbrush, gray rabbitbrush, or Chamisa, is a shrub of the genus Chrysothamnus that grows in the arid regions of western North America.
The motor conduction velocity is the speed at which a nerve impulse travels and is calculated based on the distance between the stimulation and recording sides and the latency.
A selective histamine H1-receptor antagonist devoid of central nervous system depressant activity.
The CYP3A4 gene (cytochrome P450, family 3, subfamily A, polypeptide 4) is located on chromosome 7q21.1.
Yohimbine has been used as a mydriatic and in the treatment of impotence.
Genetic testing is performed to identifying patients who are poor, intermediate, extensive, or ultrarapid metabolizers of drugs metabolized by CYP1A2.
As the coarsely granular casts slowly pass on down the tubules, the cell degeneration continues until the granules are very fine.
1,4-Benzoquinone is sensitive towards both strong mineral acids and alkali, which cause condensation and decomposition of the compound.
Dander is the material shed by the Dog into the environment through hair and "dandruff".
Mutations within this gene have been associated with polycystic lipomembranous osteodysplasia with sclerosing leukoencephalopathy (PLOSL), also known as Nasu-Hakola disease.
Hexachloroethane, also known as perchloroethane (PCA), C2Cl6, is a colorless solid at room temperature which is used by the US Military in smoke compositions, e.g. in contemporary base-eject smoke munitions.
HMB-45 is nonreactive with almost all non-melanoma human malignancies, with the exception of rare tumors showing evidence of melanogenesis (e.g., pigmented schwannoma, clear cell sarcoma) or tumors associated with tuberous sclerosis complex (angiomyolipoma and lymphangiomyoma).
PHEV is ubiquitous and occurs in North and South America, Australia, and Asia.
In response, the CDC issued a health advisory for acetyl fentanyl recommending increased testing vigilance to identify acetyl fentanyl use.
It is likely produced from phenylpyruvate via the action of lactate dehydrogenase.
It is native to southern Mexico, Central America and South America but is widely cultivated elsewhere for its curiosity value, both as a houseplant in temperate areas, and outdoors in the tropics.
The VP4 and VP7 proteins are pushed to the outermost membrane layer and become the mature triple-layered rotavirus.
This cytokine is produced primarily by monocytes and to a lesser extent by lymphocytes.
The corticotropin releasing hormone (CRH) stimulation test is used to evaluate the hypothalamic-pituitary axis and help diagnose adrenocorticotrophic hormone (ACTH or corticotropin) dependent Cushing's disease.
The test is usually used to test for diabetes, insulin resistance, and sometimes reactive hypoglycemia and acromegaly, or rarer disorders of carbohydrate metabolism.
The presence of EMVI is a strong predictor of adverse outcome.
In B. holmesii, 8-10 copies of this insertion sequence can be found.
Oxycodone belongs to the group of medicines called narcotic analgesics (pain medicines).
Borrelia burgdorferi is a Gram negative spirochete bacterium that causes Lyme disease.
Eight members of herpes virus family infect humans and cause a variety of illnesses including cold sores, chickenpox or varicella, shingles or herpes zoster (VZV), cytomegalovirus (CMV).
One of the six homologous soluble proteins that bind insulin-like growth factors (SOMATOMEDINS) and modulate their mitogenic and metabolic actions at the cellular level.
It has the atomic symbol H, atomic number 1, and atomic weight 1.
I adds β->3 N-acetylgalactosamine to the terminal galactose of Pk.
The spectrum of illness can range from a mild febrile syndrome to classic dengue fever (DF), to the severe forms of the disease, dengue hemorrhagic fever (DHF) and dengue shock syndrome (DSS).
In certain cases the measurement of these metabolites in body fluids can be used to diagnose disorders associated with mitochondrial fatty acid beta-oxidation.
Catecholamines are synthesized in the adrenal medulla, brain, and sympathetic nervous system.
The icosahedral core particle is made of 180 or 240 copies of core protein, alternatively known as hepatitis B core antigen, or HBcAg.
Strontium is a chemical element in the periodic table that has the symbol Sr and the atomic number 38.
C. sakazakii infections are rare but when present can cause diarrhea, urinary tract infections, and severe bacteremia and meningitis.
There are three primers used in tandem that can amplify the genes sodC, fucK, hpd in order to differentiate H influenzae from H haemolyticus.
Pentazocine is sold under several brand names, such as Talwin.
It is an extremely contagious enteric pathogen of pigs and causes porcine epidemic diarrhea (PED).
It is also found in rhubarb leaves, various species of Oxalis, and agaves, and (in lower amounts) in spinach.
but its activity is weaker than that of COMPLEMENT C3A or COMPLEMENT C5A.
The enzyme metabolizes both endogenous substrates, such as ethanol, acetone, and acetal, as well as exogenous substrates including benzene, carbon tetrachloride, ethylene glycol, and nitrosamines which are premutagens found in cigarette smoke.
MECs positive for MAML2 fusions (CRTC1-MAML2 or CRTC3-MAML2) are associated with favorable clinicopathological tumor features, including lower patient age, a mild female predilection, a smaller tumor size, less frequent nodal metastasis, a lower clinical stage, a lower histological grade, and longer overall and disease-free survival.
Bacillus atrophaeus (formerly Bacillus subtilis var. niger) is a gram-positive, spore-forming bacteria that produces black pigment.
About 15%-25% of Cat-allergic individuals are sensitive to Cat albumin, and for a few patients this may be the predominant allergen.
Glycated hemoglobin (hemoglobin A1c, HbA1c, A1C, or Hb1c; sometimes also HbA1c) is a form of hemoglobin that is measured primarily to identify the average plasma glucose concentration over prolonged periods of time.
Boron found in nature is commonly as a borate mineral.
It is a vine-like, perennial herb but is cultivated as an annual.
It constitutes 0.3 to 5% of the tobacco plant by dry weight, with biosynthesis taking place in the roots, and accumulates in the leaves.
In cows, as many as 13 beta-defensins exist in neutrophils.
B burgdorferi, which causes is the main cause of Lyme disease in the United States, is transmitted exclusively by the hard Ixodes ticks.
Includes PMP22 duplication and deletion testing and sequence analysis of PMP22, Connexin32, MPZ, EGR2, GDAP1, PRX, and LITAF/SIMPLE
Mutations in this gene have been shown to result in autosomal dominant progressive external opthalmoplegia and familial hypertrophic cardiomyopathy.
Radishes have numerous varieties, varying in size, color and duration of required cultivation time.
Octanoylcarnitine is a primary marker for Medium-chain acyl-CoA dehydrogenase deficiency, Glutaric acidemia type II and Medium-chain ketoacyl-CoA thiolase deficiency.
Exserohilum is a common mold found in soil and on plants, especially grasses, and thrives in warm and humid climates.
Typically, it may work within an hour and allow the individual to maintain sleep for 4 to 6 hours.
Hydroxyapatite Ca10 (PO4)6 (OH)2 (the form of calcium phosphate in bone)
Amoxapine is a strong reuptake inhibitor of norepinephrine and weak reuptake inhibitor of serotonin.
This receptor-channel complex also contains a G protein, an adenylyl cyclase, cAMP-dependent kinase, and the counterbalancing phosphatase, PP2A. The assembly of the signaling complex provides a mechanism that ensures specific and rapid signaling by this G protein-coupled receptor.
The encoded protein combines with other tumor suppressors, DNA damage sensors, and signal transducers to form a large multi-subunit protein complex known as the BRCA1-associated genome surveillance complex (BASC).
Some of these have analgesic, antipyretic, and anti-inflammatory activities by inhibiting prostaglandin synthesis.
Parietaria pollen can induce asthma, allergic rhinitis and allergic conjunctivitis.
Ureaplasma parvum is a mycoplasm that includes select serovars that were previously typed as Ureaplasma urealyticum.
Few studies, however, have investigated or reported adverse reactions to spices, including Nutmeg.
It senses small changes in circulating calcium concentration and couples this information to intracellular signaling pathways that modify PTH secretion or renal cation handling, thus this protein plays an essential role in maintaining mineral ion homeostasis.
Retinoic acid receptors mediate transcription of different sets of genes of cell differentiation, thus it also depends on the target cells.
Acepromazine or acetylpromazine (more commonly known as ACP, Ace, or by the trade names Atravet or Acezine 2, (number depending on mg/ml dose)) is a phenothiazine derivative antipsychotic drug.
The critical sequence difference between the two genes is a single nucleotide in exon 7, which is thought to be an exon splice enhancer.
It is also a secondary marker for methylmalonic aciduria and homocystinuria.
The mutations lead to a reduction or elimination of functional N-acetyltransferase.
Bourbon virus was identified in Bourbon County, Kansas in 2014.
A colorless liquid with a pungent odor, it is the precursor to polyvinyl acetate, an important polymer in industry.
Molecular detection is performed to screen for pathogens, control the spread of infections, and for use in epidemiological data.
Two forms of this enzyme exist as likely products of a gene duplication event.
When antibodies to DNA and deoxyribonucleoprotein are present (rim and homogenous pattern), there may be interference with the detection of speckled pattern.
It is commonly used as a fuel for engines, oxy-gas torches, barbecues, portable stoves and residential central heating.
It shows homology to the aspartic proteinase family of enzymes.
Syrup (see) made from the sap of various maple tree species, especially the sugar maple.
Allelic variations at amino acid positions 654 and 655 of isoform a (positions 624 and 625 of isoform b) have been reported, with the most common allele, Ile654/Ile655, shown here.
It also acts as a nucleocytoplasmic shuttle protein and is important for neural crest and peripheral nervous system development.
Lung cancer has the highest mortality of all cancers across the world.
Lecithin is commercially available in high purity as a food supplement and for medical uses.
Aerobic exercise and fitness can be contrasted with anaerobic exercise, of which strength training and short-distance running are the most salient examples.
Japanese cedar is native to Japan and the coastal provinces of China, and is often cultivated in Europe and North America.
Oak pollen is a major cause of allergic rhinitis and asthma
B. hyodysenteriae, B. suanatina, and B. hampsonii cause a severe mucohaemorrhagic colitis found mainly in grower and finisher pigs.
Most Nocardia infections are acquired by inhalation of the bacteria or through traumatic introduction.
The gamma 2 chain, formerly thought to be a truncated version of beta chain (B2t), is highly homologous to the gamma 1 chain; however, it lacks domain VI, and domains V, IV and III are shorter.
The TNFRSF1A gene (tumor necrosis factor receptor superfamily, member 1A) is located on chromosome 12p13.2.
Tahyna virus is a species in the genus Orthobunyavirus, which also includes species such as California encephalitis virus, La Crosse virus, and Snowshoe hare virus.
It is a strong opioid agonist analgesic two to three times as potent as morphine with a side effect profile similar to that of dihydromorphine, morphine, and diamorphine.
During the course of the symposium a semantic difficulty became apparent.
Anti-ganglioside antibodies, primarily IgG, are present in the sera from approximately 60% of patients with Guillain-Barré syndrome (GBS), and antibodies against different gangliosides are associated with different forms of GBS.
The SH3BP2 gene (SH3-domain binding protein 2) is located on chromosome 4p16.3.
Since COX-2 is generally expressed only in cells where prostaglandins are upregulated (e.g., during inflammation), drug-candidates that selectively inhibit COX-2 are thought to show fewer side-effects.
This gene encodes a member of the acyl-CoA synthetase family of enzymes that activate fatty acids by catalyzing the formation of a thioester linkage between fatty acids and coenzyme A.
Quinethazone (INN, brand name Hydromox) is a thiazide diuretic used to treat hypertension.
DLX is active against a broad spectrum of microorganisms, including those resistant to other fluoroquinolones such as MRSA (methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus), a major cause of hospital-acquired skin infections.
It binds to CD40 on antigen-presenting cells (APC), which leads to many effects depending on the target cell type.
A species of gram-positive, aerobic bacteria that produces TUBERCULOSIS in humans, other primates, CATTLE; DOGS; and some other animals which have contact with humans.
NPM1 mutations (e.g. mutA, mutB, mutD) occur in about 30% of adult de novo AML and cause aberrant cytoplasmic expression of NPM.
1,4-Benzoquinone, commonly known as para-quinone, is a chemical compound with the formula C6H4O2.
Eastern equine encephalitis is an encephalitogenic arbovirus common in North America and transmitted to humans via an arthropod vector.
Aucoumea klaineana (Angouma, Gaboon, or Okoumé) is a tree in the family Burseraceae, native to equatorial west Africa in Gabon, the Republic of the Congo, and Rio Muni.
Influenza D virus (IDV), has been identified in swine, cattle, sheep and goats with cattle as a natural reservoir.
It is also an intermediate in the production of vanillin from ferulic acid.
It is also thought to be involved in resistance to conventional cancer treatment.
but has also been seen in giraffes, African buffalo, and impalas.
Curled Dock (Rumex crispus), also known as Curly Dock, Yellow Dock, Sour Dock, Narrow Dock, sometimes as "narrow-leaved dock" (which properly refers to a variant of Sorrel), and ambiguously as "garden patience", is a perennial flowering plant in the family Polygonaceae, native to Europe and western Asia.
Human parvovirus B19 is a small, non-enveloped single-stranded DNA virus belonging to the genus Erythrovirus in the Parvoviridae family.
Solanine is found in the green parts of the plant.
PMDW may be increased in DIC patient mortality and thus may provide prognostic evidence on mortality for patients suspected of having DIC.
Prostaglandin D2 is the major Prostaglandin produced by uterine tissue.
CA 125 levels may have significant value in monitoring ovarian carcinoma patients.
Juniperus californica (California Juniper) is a species of juniper native to southwestern North America; as the name implies, it is mainly found in California, but also extends through most of Baja California, and a short distance into the Great Basin in southern Nevada, and western Arizona.
The symptoms are indistinguishable from those of African swine fever.
The clinically and experimentally used bovine form has VALINE in position 5.
Porcine deltacoronavirus (PDCoV) is a member of the family Coronaviridae in the genus Deltacoronavirus.
Mutations in MTR have been identified as the underlying cause of methylcobalamin deficiency complementation group G. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms have been found for this gene.
Thioridazine (Mellaril, Melleril, Sonapax, Thioril) is a piperidine typical antipsychotic drug of the phenothiazine drug class and was previously widely used in the treatment of schizophrenia and psychosis.
Patients can complete the instrument multiple times over the course of treatment and changes in their scores can be used to monitor therapy effectiveness.
To increase its effective half-life, trenbolone is not used in an unrefined form, but is rather administered as ester derivatives such as trenbolone acetate, trenbolone enanthate or trenbolone cyclohexylmethylcarbonate (Parabolan).
M2-3E (BPO) antigen is a recombinant fusion protein that is made up of the E2 subunits of the branched-chain 2-oxoacid dehydrogenase (BCOADH), pyruvate dehydrogenase (PDH) and 2-oxoglutarate dehydrogenase (OGDH).
West Nile virus Kunjin strain is a mosquito-borne virus that affects humans and horses and is one of the two etiologic agents of human arboviral encephalitis in Australia (the second is Murray Valley encephalitis virus).
Cenobamate is an anti-seizure medication indicated for adult patients with partial-onset seizures, also known as focal-onset seizures.
These two subunits must be cleaved in order for the virus to attach and enter the host cell.
The small, inconspicuous, self-fertile flowers are borne in the axil of the leaf and are either white or purple.
Accumulation of cerumen (impaction) can lead to partial or complete obstruction of the ear canal, potentially causing hearing loss and preventing assessment of the ear.
All monosaccharides which contain ketone groups are known as ketoses, and those which contain aldehyde groups are known as aldoses.
The name ropivacaine refers to both the racemate and the marketed S-enantiomer.
Its use at lower doses with appropriate care and labeling has been reaffirmed by the FDA and most other countries.
Diphtheria has been eradicated from most developed countries due to the implementation of universal vaccination against the primary virulence factor of diphtheria which is the diphtheria toxin (DT).
A species of PESTIVIRUS causing a congenital sheep disease characterized by an abnormally hairy birth-coat, tremors, and poor growth.
Levels of Angiotensin II are increased in many types of hypertension.
Blood tests for IgE response indicating alpha gal allergy have not been approved by the FDA, but are available and are in use.
The D842V (Asp842Val) mutation is located in exon 18 of the PDGFRA gene.
Galactomannin is a component of the fungal cell wall and an exoantigen of Aspergillus.
The derived cells migrate from the bone marrow to the blood as monocytes.
The Syrian, or Golden Hamster, of Eastern Europe and Western Asia, is familiar as a laboratory animal and pet.
Vertebrates have 3 aldolase isozymes which are distinguished by their electrophoretic and catalytic properties.
2-chlorovinyl arsonous acid (CVAA) is a metabolite of the chemical warfare agent Lewisite, an organoaresenic blistering agent and lung irritant.
Cell surface heparan sulfate proteoglycans are composed of a membrane-associated protein core substituted with a variable number of heparan sulfate chains.
It is an intracellular bacterium and it survives within the phagolysosomes of its host.
Serum analysis of LH has also been found to be useful in the diagnosis and treatment of infertility in women.
The MART-1 / Melan-A antigen is specific for the melanocyte lineage, found in normal skin, the retina, and melanocytes, but not in other normal tissues.
It functions as a transcription factor that regulates transcription of specific target genes.
One of its modes of action is to prevent T-lymphocyte activation.
This enzyme catalyzes the initial step of the mitochondrial fatty acid beta-oxidation pathway.
Most are marine plankton, but they are common in fresh water habitats as well.
It is an autosomal dominant disorder, with heterozygotes having a 3-11 fold increased risk for thrombosis.
Axis measurement increment is the specificity to which a ophthalmologic device can measure the axis, typically 1 or 5 degrees.
Triamterene has poor solubility in urine and may precipitate and cause kidney stones.
Terbufos is lethal against wireworms, seedcorn maggots, white grubs, corn rootworm larvae and more.
Bartonella henselae is a fastidious gram negative rod bacteria and the causative agent in most cases of Cat Scratch Disease.
The GAA segment is repeated 66 to more than 1,000 times.
Clonazolam is a triazolobenzodiazepine that has increasingly been observed in forensic casework.
Lamivudine (2',3'-dideoxy-3'-thiacytidine, commonly called 3TC) is a potent nucleoside analog reverse transcriptase inhibitor (nRTI).
The asthma action plan is a common document provided to patients, parents and others, like school nurses.
Found on all activated leukocytes Associated with Acute leukemias, Intermediate and high grade lymphomas and Reed-Sternberg cells
In addition to their cytolytic function in the innate immune system, NK cells also function to regulate reciprocal interaction with dendritic cells, macrophages, T cells and endothelial cells and thereby affect immune response.
The PMS2 gene (PMS1 homolog 2, mismatch repair system component) is located on chromosome 7p22.1.
In the general population, about 8% Caucasian, 4% African, 2-9% Chinese, and 0.1-0.5% Japanese have the HLA-B27 antigen.
The lens is the structure which focuses light and images on the retina.
(OAI values are typically categorized as 5-15/hr = Mild; 15-30/hr = Moderate; and > 30/h = Severe.)
With 'M' for "major", the M group is by far the most common type of HIV, with more than 90% of HIV/AIDS cases deriving from infection with HIV-1 group M. The M group is subdivided further into clades, called subtypes, that are also given a letter.
Some crossreactivity to oyster, Ostrea edulis, (f290) could be expected.
To definitively diagnose intestinal spirochetosis, the typical colonic leasion must be observed and infection by B. pilosicoli must be confirmed.
The genes transcribed by RNA Pol III fall in the category of "housekeeping" genes whose expression is required in all cell types and most environmental conditions.
Eszopiclone is a cyclopyrrolones and a benzodiazepine receptor agonist derived from pyridine, pyrazine and piperazine and used to treat insomnia.
Mugwort pollen exhibited the greatest degree of cross-reactivity with Sunflower pollen, whereas at the other end of the spectrum, Short ragweed showed fewer cross-reactive epitopes (15).
Although probably all three genospecies can cause all major manifestations, it appears that infection with different B. burgdorferi sensu lato genospecies results in distinct presentations of Lyme borreliosis.
The difference between VC and FVC is associated with degree of airflow limitation as well as exercise tolerance in patients with COPD.
Treatment options for women with LCIS include lifelong monitoring in order to detect future possible malignancy at an early stage, chemoprevention, and bilateral prophylactic mastectomy.
The EGFR gene c.2369C>T mutation causes a substitution of threonine for methionine in the EGFR protein at position 790.
Smad proteins are phosphorylated and activated by transmembrane serine-threonine receptor kinases in response to TGF-beta signaling.
Species within groups of fish, like Gadiformes (examples: codfish and hake) and Scombroid fishes (examples: mackerel and tuna) seem to share allergenic components.
When symptoms begin in adolescence or adulthood, they tend to be milder and usually do not involve the heart.
The life cycle of B. malayi is similar to that of WUCHERERIA BANCROFTI, except that in most areas the principal mosquito vectors belong to the genus Mansonia.
The clear constricted portion of the chromosome at which the chromatids are joined and by which the chromosome is attached to the spindle during cell division.
AMA is present in about 95% of cases of PBC.
AKT1 and the related AKT2 are activated by platelet-derived growth factor.
Carbonyl sulfide is the chemical compound with the formula OCS.
It is then hydroxylated in the liver to 25-hydroxycholecalciferol which in turn is hydroxylated in the kidney into two dihydroxylated metabolites which are 1,25-dihydroxycholecalciferol (the active hormone) and 24R,25 (OH)2D3.
The Zanoni serovar has been isolated from dairy cattle and many dairy workers have been infected.
Mefenamic acid is used to relieve mild to moderate pain, including menstrual pain (pain that happens before or during a menstrual period).
Uniparental disomy (UPD) occurs when an individual inherits two copies of a chromosome, or part of a chromosome, from one parent and no copies from the other parent.
HH can also cause cirrhosis, hepatomas, diabetes, cardiomyopahty, arthritis, and hypogonadotrophic hypogonadism.
The BLM gene (Bloom syndrome, RecQ helicase-like) is located on chromosome 15q26.1.
Monoethyl methylphosphonate (Russian VX acid) a metabolite of the Russian variant (RVX) of the chemical warfare nerve agent VX.
A food additive, which may result in allergy symptoms in sensitised individuals.
The AIDA-I protein is a multifunctional autotransporter protein that regulates the aggregation of bacteria and formation of biofilm.
CO gas is produced from almost any fire as the result of incomplete combustion to CO2, and the normal individual will have about 1 or 2 % of their hemoglobin in the form of carboxyhemoglobin, and up to 5% depending on environmental circumstances.
TH-DOC levels are also measured to determine the effectiveness of medication (e.g. cortisol supplementation) against the disease.
In 1989, US production stood at 740 million pounds (336,000 t).
Pneumococcal pneumonia is seen most commonly in elderly or immunosuppressed individuals.
It is effective in the treatment of angina pectoris and hypertension.
Acquired primary hypoaldosteronism can be caused by the administration of heparin.
Integrins are involved in cell adhesion and also participate in cell-surface mediated signalling.
The v2 region of the SEPT9 promoter has been shown to be methylated in colorectal cancer tissue compared with normal colonic mucosa.
Skin contact is another important route of exposure in the workplace.
They live also in soil and on soil surfaces, on long-persistent snows, and in Antarctic rocks.
MAPT transcripts are differentially expressed in the nervous system, depending on stage of neuronal maturation and neuron type.
Eosin-5-maleimide (EMA) is a fluorescent dye used in flow cytometry to screen for hereditary spherocytosis (HS).
Rubinstein-Taybi syndrome occurs in approximately 1 in 100,000 to 125,000 live births.
The dimensions of health status measured by the health charts are: Physical, Emotional, Daily Activities, Social Activities, Social Support, Pain, and Overall Health.
Injections of two milligrams of viscosupplement containing hyaluronic acid by 20 gauge 1.5 inch needles weekly for three weeks may increase synovial fluid viscosity and reduce inflammation and pain for about three months.
The MARS2 gene (methionyl-tRNA synthetase 2, mitochondrial) is located on chromosome 2q33.1.
A liver fibrosis score is a noninvasive method used to determine the presence and degree of liver fibrosis in a patient based on a variety of different parameters (e.g., lab tests, age, and gender) depending on the method used..
SP-D values may be supportive in patients with interstial lung diseases and is considered to be supportive in patients with ARDS and CF.
Mutations in this gene have been implicated as causes of familial amyotrophic lateral sclerosis.
Treatment is of symptoms and in-line with general guidelines for support of viral respiratory infections.
Important S6 ribosomal protein phosphorylation sites include several residues (Ser235, Ser236, Ser240, and Ser244) located within the carboxy-terminal region of the S6 protein.
The CYP3A5*1 allele (A6986) appears to be the main allele associated with CYP3A5 expression and activity.
A centrocyte generally refers to a B cell with a cleaved nucleus, as may be seen in for example, follicular lymphoma.
Alpha subunit gene mutations lead to Tay-Sachs disease (GM2-gangliosidosis type I).
Entamoeba histolytica and Entamoeba dispar are a complex of two different but morphologically identical species.
CCAAT/enhancer-binding protein alpha is a protein that in humans is encoded by the CEBPA gene.
A subcomponent of complement C1, composed of six copies of three polypeptide chains (A, B, and C), each encoded by a separate gene (C1QA; C1QB; C1QC).
This gene belongs to the cadherin superfamily of calcium-dependent cell adhesion molecules.
Ethion is known to affect a nueral enzyme called acetylcholinesterase and prevent it from working.
It has antibiotic activity against a wide range of Gram-negative and Gram-positive organisms.
Required in very small amounts, trace elements such as iron, iodine, fluoride, copper, zinc, chromium, selenium, manganese and molybdenum are essential for maintaining health.
If thyroid peroxidase is not produced or blocked by antibodies, hypothyroidism occurs.
The influenza virus A (FLUVA) genome is composed of eight gene segments (PB2, PB1, PA, HA, NP, NA, M, NS1) that code for 11 proteins.
The active metabolite of 5-FU combines with the nucleotide binding site of TS which prevents dUMP from being able to bind with TS.
Pantothenate kinase is a key regulatory enzyme in the biosynthesis of coenzyme A (CoA) in bacteria and mammalian cells.
A broad-spectrum semisynthetic antibiotic related to TETRACYCLINE but excreted more slowly and maintaining effective blood levels for a more extended period.
Its infusion is used to treat fever, muscles spasms, dysentery and gout, and has been found to have strong antimicrobial properties against E. coli and Staphylococcus epidermis.
The BPGM gene (bisphosphoglycerate mutase) is located on chromosome 7q33.
The transforming protein that results is implicated in various malignancies, including lung adenocarcinoma, mucinous adenoma, ductal carcinoma of the pancreas and colorectal carcinoma.
It was sold by itself as Zactane, and is still available as a combination product with acetylsalicylic acid and meprobamate as Equagesic, which is used for the treatment of conditions where both pain and anxiety are present.
Several Enterobacteriaceae strains have become resistant to antibiotics, including carbapenem.
Its small, very nutritious seeds resemble millet and are very versatile in cooking.
The enzyme UDP-glucose 4-epimerase, also known as UDP-galactose 4-epimerase or GALE, is a homodimeric epimerase found in bacterial, plant, and mammalian cells.
An indication that a person has a condition or disease.
It is an acidic viscous liquid with a pKa of 4.5.
Vitamin A is important for normal vision, the immune system, and it helps the heart, lungs, kidneys, and other organs work properly.
Soils contain inorganic selenites and selenates that plants accumulate and convert to organic forms, mostly selenocysteine and selenomethionine and their methylated derivatives.
According to the WHO manual of semen analysis, if the round cell estimate in semen exceeds 1 x 10^6 / ml, they should be further analyzed to distinguish origin and type.
The protein encoded by this gene is a cytoplasmic protein and contains two doublecortin domains, which bind microtubules.
Multivitamin and minerals (MVMs) are popular dietary supplements and, according to estimates, more than one-third of all Americans take these supplements.
All of the numbered carbon atoms have a hydrogen atom bonded to each of them.
A species of parasitic nematode found in the intestine of dogs.
Dietary fiber, also known as roughage or bulk, includes the parts of plant foods the body can't digest or absorb.
It has also been designated a Group 1 Fagales-related protein.
Hemoglobin Q (Hb Q) is defined in terms of a specific band on electrophoresis.
Ninety percent of people without immunity living in close quarters with an infected person will catch the disease.
Counting the carbon atoms from one of the ring carbons bonded to a methyl group, and counting towards the second ring carbon bonded to a methyl group, the o - isomer has the IUPAC name of 1,2-dimethylbenzene.
Recent studies have shown increasing numbers of invasive SDSE infections, especially immunocompromised patients.
The vaccination against MeV become available in the United States in 1963 which caused a rapid drop in MeV infections.
A plant species of the genus PINUS which is the subject of genetic study.
The latency is the time from nerve stimulation to the start of the action potential in a nerve conduction study.
Transferrin is more stable than hemoglobin and remains intact even when it originates in the upper intestinal tract.
Because dopamine cannot cross the blood-brain barrier, however, when given as a drug it does not directly affect the central nervous system.
A general increase in the number of lymphocytes is known as lymphocytosis whereas a decrease is lymphocytopenia.
Introduced to the United States, the tree is native to eastern Asia, and is most commonly associated with eastern China, Taiwan, and Japan.
It is also used to treat recurrent or metastatic angiosarcoma and resistant gastrointestinal stromal tumors (GIST).
They all seem to derive from independent transmissions from sooty mangabeys to humans.
GDF-15 has been associated with suppressing inflammation in various conditions such as cardiac ischemia and early pregnancy.
Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms.
Detects gram negative endotoxins in aqueous solutions used in patient management.
Centroblasts are precursors to plasma cells and used in grading follicular lymphoma.
Levels of rifampin and its metabolites are measured for therapeutic drug monitoring to ensure efficacy and avoid toxicity.
It is hydrolyzed to p-hydroxybenzoic acid and rapidly excreted without accumulation in the body.
It can be breathed in, ingested and absorbed through skin.
Shigella toxin-producing Escherichia coli (STEC) has become a serious food-borne pathogen.
Therefore, it is not usually present in the blood of healthy adults, although levels are raised in heavy smokers.
A member of the FOX protein family, FOXP3 appears to function as a master regulator in the development and function of regulatory T cells.
Their discovery is likely rare, due to the infection-fighting efficiency of neutrophils, and the possibility of misidentification as a fine granular cast.
Oats may also be consumed raw, and cookies with raw oats are quickly becoming popular.
In addition, a connection was found between Helicobacter pylori infection and the presence of the 5939C allele.
Aspartic acid (Asp), also known as aspartate, the name of its anion, is one of the 20 natural proteinogenic amino acids which are the building blocks of proteins.
It is increased with arginase deficiency, cystinuria, and lysine intolerance (Information from LOINC partner 1 9/15/06).
Automated kinetic perimetry uses a mobile stimulus that is controlled by a perimetry machine, with the patient indicating whether he sees the light by pushing a button.
It also has been shown to form complexes with the adenovirus E1A protein, the SV40 T antigen, and the human papilloma virus E7 protein.
Guanosine is a purine nucleoside that can be phosphorylated to become guanosine monophosphate (GMP), cyclic guanosine monophosphate (cGMP), guanosine diphosphate (GDP), and guanosine triphosphate (GTP).
Alternate transcriptional splice variants, encoding different isoforms with distinct cellular localizations, have been characterized.
Allergy test for allergens with House Dust extracted by acetone precipitation.
Testing for Api m 10 could be important in accurately diagnosing and treating a significant portion of the population allergic to honey bee venom.
Calprotectin levels in synovial fluid may be measured for the diagnosis of periprosthetic joint infections (PJI).
The Prostate Health Index (PHI) is a calculation that includes PSA, free PSA, and p2PSA.
Dopamine is a major transmitter in the extrapyramidal system of the brain, and is important in regulating its movement.
It is also an indicator of the number of sperm required for fertilization in the in vitro fertilization procedure.
Dysregulation of TNF production has been implicated in a variety of human diseases, as well as cancer.
Mutations in this gene are correlated with gastric, breast, colorectal, thyroid and ovarian cancer.
Dry body weight is the body weight of a hemodialysis patient post-dialysis, when the blood pressure is within normal limits without the use of antihypertensive medication.
The three other filarial nematodes are Mansonella streptocerca, Onchocerca volvulus (causes river blindness), and Dracunculus medinensis (guinea worm).
It is a flammable colorless liquid that has a boiling point of 152 °C.
It is a clear liquid with an acrid penetrating odor.
In patients with acute co-infections, hepatitis D antigen (HDVAg) appears early after HBsAg does and disappears with convalescence.
However, they are not known to cure AD or prevent the loss of cognitive abilities in the future.
Mutations in this gene cause cardiofaciocutaneous syndrome (CFC syndrome), a disease characterized by heart defects, mental retardation, and distinctive facial features similar to those found in Noonan syndrome.
The BRAF gene (B-Raf proto-oncogene, serine/threonine kinase) Val600Glu mutation is the most common BRAF mutation detected in human cancer and causes a conformational change in the BRAF protein's G-loop activation segment that makes it constitutively active and resistant to negative feedback signals.
Reserpine is an indole alkaloid antipsychotic and antihypertensive drug that has been used for the control of high blood pressure and for the relief of psychotic symptoms, although because of the development of better drugs for these purposes and because of its numerous side-effects, it is rarely used today.
Since endemic genotypes can change quickly, constant monitoring of cases and outbreaks is necessary.
The following information is included in the action plan: 1.
The F8 gene (coagulation factor VIII, procoagulant component) is located on chromosome Xq28.
Toscana virus (TOSV) was identified in 1971 in central Italy from sandflies Phlebotomus perniciosus and Phlebotomus perfiliewi.
It can be in the form of a powder, a mist, or a pellet, or it can be dissolved in water or weak acid.
Dipalmitoylphosphatidylcholine (DPPC) is a phospholipid and the major constituent of pulmonary surfactant.
In addition, omega-6 fatty acids help stimulate skin and hair growth, maintain bone health, regulate metabolism, and maintain the reproductive system.
The huntingtin gene is widely expressed and is required for normal development.
Lymphoma markers look for particular molecules of a very specific type that are located on the surface of the cells.
It is also synthesized by the body, where it forms part of glycolipids and glycoproteins in several tissues.
Urinary casts are cylindrical aggregations of particles that form in the distal nephron of the kidney and can be seen in urine samples examined by light microscopy.
Translocations between this locus and several other loci have been associated with acute promyelocytic leukemia.
It is a complex of DNA, histones and nonhistone proteins found within the nucleus of a cell.
Yellow fever (also called yellow jack, black vomit or vomito negro in Spanish, or sometimes American Plague) is an acute viral disease.
A benzodiazepine that acts as a GAMMA-AMINOBUTYRIC ACID modulator and anti-anxiety agent.
Dental age can also be used to determine bone age and provides additional information regarding the maturity of the skeletal system as a whole.
Symptoms usually occurred after the consumption of Malt-containing chocolate drinks and Malt-containing snack products.
ROCV is an enveloped flavivirus containing a positive-sense single-stranded RNA.
The VKORC1 gene (vitamin K epoxide reductase complex, subunit 1) is located on chromosome 16p11.2.
Under normal circumstances, urine contains predominantly R-BAIB (from thymine) because it is eliminated by filtration and tubular secretion, while plasma contains about 80% S-BAIB (from valine), which is reabsorbed in the kidneys.
Ara h 3 is recognised by serum IgE from 45% - 50% of patients with Peanut sensitivity.
The presence of red blood cells within the cast is always pathologic, and strongly indicates glomerular damage, which can occur in glomerulonephritis from various causes or vasculitis, including Wegener's granulomatosis, systemic lupus erythematosis, post-streptococcal glomerulonephritis or Goodpasture's syndrome.
Some sexually transmitted HPVs, such as types 6 and 11, can cause genital warts.
Three G6PD variants occur frequently and have clinical implications in different ethnic groups.
Isobutane is the R group for the amino acid leucine.
PEDV was first identified in Belgium in 1978, but has caused serious outbreaks since then in Asian pig farming countries including China.
The distribution of the two genotypes may indicate the involvement of different vectors.
SOX10 is a member of the SOX (SRY-related HMG-box) family of transcription factors involved in the regulation of embryonic development and in the determination of the cell fate.
Large quantities are found in the painfully poisonous plant dumb cane.
The leaves also contains oxalic acid, which inhibits calcium and iron absorption, can aggravate joint problems in those with arthritis or gout, and may promote kidney stone formation.
ADH must be compared with osmolality results for correct diagnosis.
Influenza virus nucleoprotein (NP) switches RNA synthesis from transcription mode to replication mode.
The most common symptoms attributed to Kiwi allergy are those associated with oral allergy syndrome, which include pruritis of the eyes, ears, tongue, pharynx and mouth, and swelling of the lips, tongue and pharynx.
High levels of Interleukin 8 have been shown to reduce the likelihood of positive responses to antipsychotic medication in schizophrenia.
This version differs from the original CO-OP Charts by asking about function in the previous 2 weeks (rather than 4 weeks).
Health effects from uranium exposure can result from chemical toxicity to the kidney, which can occur occasionally from high occupational exposure.
The degree and site of furcation help guide treatment and may be used as a clinical indicator for the severity of periodontal disease and likelihood of future tooth loss.
The gene of PAPP-A is assigned to human chromosome 9q 33.1.
Because the subsequent carnitine biosynthesis enzymes are cytosolic, 3-hydroxy-6-N-trimethyllysine must be transported out of the mitochondria by a putative mitochondrial 6-N-trimethyllysine/3-hydroxy-6-N-trimethyllysine transporter system.
A species of a Gram negative spitochete that belongs to the Borrelia burgdorferi group and causes Lyme disease.
The denominator is also a distance - the distance at which the size of the tested letter would subtend an arc of 5 minutes; what changes is the size of the letters and the distance at which the letters subtend that 5 minutes of angle.
About 20% of porphphyria cutanea tartada patients are PCT type II.
An E. coli strain carrying a cloned cDNA encoding the Phleum pratense allergen Phl p 5b.
Chronic exposure to EPN may be asymptomatic but can become increasingly dangerous.
It comprises two human biovars: trachoma and lymphogranuloma venereum (LGV).
The urinary and respiratory tracts are the most common sites of infection.
Trichosporon species can also cause severe opportunistic infections (trichosporonosis) in immunocompromised individuals.
Visceral fat is composed of several adipose depots, including mesenteric, epididymal white adipose tissue (EWAT), and perirenal depots.
A transcript variant arising as a result of alternative promoter usage, and containing a different 5' UTR sequence, has been described, however, its full-length nature is not known.
It can be used by itself as a short-term sedative and in combination with other drugs to provide night-time allergy and cold relief.
However, it may be an emerging pathogen in patients with hematologic malignancies.
MMP-9 secreted by HCC cells forecasts an aggressively invasive and metastatic form of cancer.
GABA-A is a chloride ionophore in the central nervous system, that when bound causes the chloride channels to open, leading to hyperpolarization, inhibition of neuronal firing, and an increase in the inhibition of GABA.
The LDLR gene (low density lipoprotein receptor) is located on chromosome 19p13.2.
Thyroid hormone uptake ("T-uptake") assays provide information on the number of thyroid hormone binding sites, consisting primarily of thyroid binding globulin, thyroxine binding prealbumin and albumin.
Japanese Hop is a very frequent cause of symptoms of asthma and allergic rhinitis in sensitised individuals in autumn, in particular in the East.
In the newborn period, findings include severe neurologic abnormalities, poor feeding, failure to thrive, and hypotonia.
Pericardial drainage (pericardiocentesis) is generally necessary for patients with an excess of fluid around the heart (pericardial effusion) in order to relieve pressure on the heart and avoid heart dysfunction.
Horse allergy occurs among people who regularly handle Horses, either professionally or for recreational purposes, resulting in the induction or exacerbation of asthma, allergic rhinitis, allergic conjunctivitis and occupational asthma.
Cesium has many industrial applications, including the construction of atomic clocks based on its atomic vibrational frequency.
A higher level of methemoglobin will tend to cause a pulse oximeter to read closer to 85% regardless of the true level of oxygen saturation.
This dipeptide has not yet been identified in human tissues or biofluids and so it is classified as an 'Expected' metabolite.
Pigs have been poisoned by drinking the condensed water from ventilating shafts in piggeries and after eating plaster board which had fallen into their pens after becoming soaked with this material.
Doxepin is a tricyclic antidepressant, known under many brand-names such as Aponal ®, the original preparation by Boehringer-Ingelheim, now part of the Roche group; Adapine ®, Sinquan ® and Sinequan ® (Pfizer Inc.).
Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants have been found for this gene.
The effects lasts 8-12 hours, but factor Xa activity does not return to normal within 24 hours so once-daily dosing is possible.
This protein has been shown to be involved in the following biological processes: cell adhesion, cell activation and chemoattraction, cell growth and differentiation, cell cycle, and apoptosis.
They are now used extensively as ornamentals in urban environments.
Sindbis virus is an "arbovirus" (arthropod-borne) and is maintained in nature by transmission between vertebrate (bird) hosts and invertebrate (mosquito) vectors.
SFTPD levels may be ordered with CC16 (Clara-cell secretory protein), an anti-inflammatory marker with respect to the integrity of the lung epithelium.
Digoxin preparations are commonly marketed under the trade name Lanoxin.
In fungi, hyphae are the main mode of vegetative growth, and are collectively called a mycelium.
Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants of this gene.
Rifampicin or rifampin (USAN) is a bacteriostatic antibiotic drug of the rifamycin group.
The first 34 amino acids bind to the type 1 PTH/PTH-related peptide receptor that is expressed primarily in bone, kidney, cartilage, vessels, and certain developing organs.
Testing may aid in the identification of sideroblastic and hemolytic anemias.
The persons at greatest risk of developing complications due to B19 are those with sickle cell disease and thalassemia.
The ganglionic (alpha3-type) neuronal acetylcholine receptors (AChR) facilitate fast synaptic transmission in sympathetic, parasympathetic, and enteric autonomic ganglia.
Penicillium brevicompactum, one of the most common indoor airborne fungi, can cause respiratory problems, including asthma.
ALT is released into the bloodstream when cells containing it are damaged.
BAFF and BAFF-R normally play a role in B- and T- cell development and regulating humoral immunity, but in pathological conditions, may promote the survival of malignant B cells.
Within 48 hours of admission, the individual's prehospital admission status and the status early in the hospital stay are recorded.
Sporothrix schenckii is a thermally dimorphic fungus that can be found world-wide, and is the only active species of the genus Sporothrix.
Prior to the development of a vaccine, it was a common childhood disease worldwide, and is still a significant threat to health in the third world.
Monomeric prolactin is the most common form of circulating prolactin.
Integrin, alpha E (ITGAE) also known as CD103 (Cluster of Differentiation 103) is an integrin.
Infections can be localized or systemic, and are often associated with the insertion of medical devices.
Gamma-linolenic acid (GLA, sometimes called gamoleic acid) is a fatty acid found primarily in vegetable oils.
The drug is well tolerated and has no anticholinergic side effects.
A triple bolus test or a dynamic pituitary function test is a medical diagnostic procedure used to assess a patient's pituitary function.
A species of gram-negative bacteria causing MASTITIS; ARTHRITIS; and RESPIRATORY TRACT DISEASES in CATTLE.
Lobular carcinoma in situ (LCIS) is part of the category of breast diseases called lobular neoplasia.
The MRPS22 (mitochondrial ribosomal protein S22) is located on chromosome 3 at position q23.
Expression occurs prior to and is required for expression of pou domain transcription factor 1, which is responsible for pituitary development and hormone expression.
A covalently linked dimeric nonessential amino acid formed by the oxidation of CYSTEINE.
Emergency Action Steps: epinephrine med order, call 911, emergency contacts, 7.
This gene encodes a hypothalamic neuropeptide precursor protein that gives rise to two mature neuropeptides, orexin A and orexin B, by proteolytic processing.
It catalyzes the reversible hydrolysis of S-adenosylhomocysteine (AdoHcy) to adenosine (Ado) and L-homocysteine (Hcy).
It is used for all types of severe pain, such as postoperative, cancer, kidney stones and fractures.
Mutations in this gene result in pseudohypoparathyroidism type 1a, pseudohypoparathyroidism type 1b, Albright hereditary osteodystrophy, pseudopseudohypoparathyroidism, McCune-Albright syndrome, progressive osseus heteroplasia, polyostotic fibrous dysplasia of bone, and some pituitary tumors.
Tilia cordata (Small-leaved Lime, occasionally Small-leaved Linden) is a species of Tilia native to much of Europe and western Asia, north to southern Great Britain (north to about Durham), central Scandinavia, east to central Russia, and south to central Spain, Italy, Bulgaria, Turkey, and the Caucasus.
Brucellosis plays an important role in the economy and health of many developing countries because of its impact on both livestock and humans.
Peak expiratory flow (PEF) is the maximal flow (or speed) achieved during the maximally forced expiration initiated at full expiration, measured in liters per minute.
In case of suspected sudden intake of a large amount of aluminum, deferoxamine mesylate may be given to help eliminate it from the body by chelation.
Not surprisingly, those with the lowest levels (below 0.5 g/L) are associated with more severe bleeding.
Dried seeds or "beans" are roasted, ground, and brewed to make 1 of the 2 most important beverages in the Western world.
The Hb Lepore variant, consisting of two normal alpha globin chains (HBA) and two deltabeta globin fusion chains which occurs due to a "crossover" between the delta (HBD) and beta globin (HBB) gene loci during meiosis.
The LAMC2 gene (laminin subunit gamma 2) is located on chromosome 1q25-q31.
Contains several allergens such as albumin, other serum proteins and the acidic glycoprotein fraction that has been shown to be the major dog allergen.
Act d 1, a 30 kDa protein, also known as actinidin, belonging to the cysteine protease protein family.
The various forms of vitamin A are solubilized into micelles in the intestinal lumen and absorbed by duodenal mucosal cells.
Meadow grass/Kentucky blue is native to Europe and Asia, this grass now has worldwide distribution in temperate regions.
The stems and leaves are used to make an herbal tea known as rooibos, bush tea, red tea, or redbush tea.
Hydrogen breath test using fructose is performed to diagnose a fructose malabsorption.
GALT catalyzes the second step of the Leloir pathway of galactose metabolism.
Variation in the region of chromosome 8 including the genes steroid 11-beta-hydroxylase (CYP11B1) and aldosterone synthase (CYP11B2) influences mineralocorticoid and glucocorticoid metabolism; differences in 11-hydroxylation efficiency can have downstream effects on mineralocorticoid synthesis.
However, as a monomer, this protein can function as a protease.
B little g super little b antigens are members of the HLA Class I antigens and represent HLA-B17 (B57 or B58).
It has been found in the urine of newborn infants.
The genes of the alpha and beta subunits of the mitochondrial trifunctional protein are located adjacent to each other in the human genome in a head-to-head orientation.
Vitamin E therapy, in some cases, may have a favorable effect on moderate and severe cases of the retinopathy of prematurity and the retinopathy of abetalipoproteinemia.
It is a comparatively in-odorous oil of a yellow color, having a specific gravity varying between 0.912 to 0.920.
It is an important, negatively charged ion in the blood, and a major electrolyte that helps to conduct electrical impulses.
P and P super little k (Pk) antigens are expressed on almost all red blood cells.
Less aggressive cancers have more tubule formation, with scores assigned as follows: 1 = greater than 75% of the tumor area contains tubular or glandular structures 2 = 10 to 75% of the tumor area contains tubular structures 3 = less than 10% of the tumor area contains tubular structures
It is used as an amebicide in many different preparations and may cause serious cardiac, hepatic, or renal damage and violent diarrhea and vomiting.
Initial response to therapy is usually rapid, but full recovery can take weeks to months.
The mechanisms of its effects in movement disorders are not well understood but probably reflect an increase in synthesis and release of dopamine, with perhaps some inhibition of dopamine uptake.
Enzyme and fluorescent-based assays, which were preceded by the RAST test (Radio-AllergoSorbent Test), are performed to detect allergen-specific IgE in the patient's serum.
Therefore, high hemopexin levels indicates that there has been significant degradation of heme containing compounds and hemopexin is made to scavenge any heme it can.
Prior to the development of eculizumab, the only treatment for aHUS was plasmapheresis, which did not stop progressive organ impairment.
The flow rate across any of these hemispherical isovelocity surfaces is equal to the area of the surface (which can be calculated from its radius) multiplied by the flow velocity at the surface.
Flaviviruses assemble as fusion-incompetent immature particles and then undergo conformational change leading to release of infectious virions.
hCG may have additional functions, including affecting the immune tolerance of the pregnancy.
In humans, reticulocytes are erythroid cells that have just undergone extrusion of their nucleus.
Culture is not recommended to identify M hyopneumoniae due to its slow and fastidious growth.
It does not produce significant effects to the extrapyramidial nerves like other neuroleptics and is often effective in patients who were previously resistant to other types of schizophrenia medications.
There are more than 2000 varieties of plum cultivated throughout the world.
In itself, secondary coproporphyrinuria is not associated with porphyria symptoms of a hepatologic-gastroenterologic, neurologic, or dermatologic order, even though coproporphyrinuria can occur with such symptoms.
Culex pipiens is a species of blood-feeding mosquitoes of the family Culicidae.
Defects in this gene results in hemophilia A, a common recessive X-linked coagulation disorder.
The Rh antigens are encoded by two highly homologous and closely linked genes on the short arm of chromosome 1.
The degree or intensity of heat present in the specimen environment during transport, as expressed according to a comparative scale and shown by a thermometer.
Treatment should be initiated as soon as the diagnosis is confirmed, or sooner if the patient presents in apparent adrenal crisis
This gene regulates glucose-6-phosphate transport from the cytoplasm to the lumen of the endoplasmic reticulum, in order to maintain glucose homeostasis.
Rifaximin is used in the treatment of traveler's diarrhea and hepatic encephalopathy, for which it received orphan drug status from the U.S. Food and Drug Administration in 1998.
Increasing degrees of pleomorphism are associated with increasingly aggressive cancers, with scores assigned as follows: 1 = no pleomorphism 2 = moderate pleomorphism 3 = extensive pleomorphism
Actinomyces sp. have also been shown to infect the central nervous system in a dog "without history or evidence of previous trauma or other organ involvement.
4-Deoxythreonic acid is a normally occurring carboxylic acid in humans.
In the central nervous system, serotonin is believed to play an important role in the regulation of mood, sleep, emesis (vomiting), sexuality and appetite.
Low intravascular levels of GSH are associated with chronic diseases including heart disease, stroke, cancer, chronic respiratory diseases, diabetes, and mitochondrial disorders, and low intracellular levels with Alzheimer's and Parkinson's disease.
A polypeptide hormone produced in the HYPOTHALAMUS, and other tissues and organs.
The blood levels of dehydroaripiprazole vary widely between patients who have taken the same dose of the drug.
Phl p 2 is representative of the large family of cross-reacting plant allergens classified as grass allergens group 2/3.
Elevated levels of myeloperoxidase have been observed in individuals with the following conditions: heart disease, cystic fibrosis, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, rheumatoid arthritis and Alzheimer's disease.
3-Hydroxybenzoic acid is produced in the gut microflora as one of the three main metabolites formed from the catechin diet.
Illness can occur as foodborne botulism which occurs when a person ingests pre-formed toxin that leads to illness within a few hours to days.
Creatine is a nitrogenous organic acid that naturally occurs in vertebrates and helps to supply energy to muscle cells.
Cross-reactivity between Sunflower and other Asteraceae pollens (Mugwort, Marguerite, Dandelion, Goldenrod, and Short ragweed) has also been demonstrated by RAST and immunoblotting inhibition experiments.
DHA deficiencies are associated with fetal alcohol syndrome, attention deficit hyperactivity disorder, cystic fibrosis, phenylketonuria, unipolar depression, aggressive hostility, and adrenoleukodystrophy.
DICOM images from CT, MR and US imaging can be used as templates for 3D models by converting the DICOM file to one of the formats compatible with 3D printing.
Signs and symptoms of riboflavin deficiency (ariboflavinosis) include cracked and red lips, inflammation of the lining of mouth and tongue, mouth ulcers, cracks at the corners of the mouth (angular cheilitis), and a sore throat.
It is most usually marketed in the hydrochloride and sulfate forms.
Chronic shifts in the rate of glutathione synthesis may be reflected by urinary excretion of 2-hydroxybutyrate.
These mites thrive in humid human dwellings where there is no liquid water to drink.
Patients with peritonitis due to pancreatitis have significantly higher levels of lipase in peritoneal dialysis fluid compared to patients without pancreatitis.
Brewer's yeast (also known as brewing yeast) can mean any live yeast used in brewing.
Ampicillin is a beta-lactam antibiotic that has been used extensively to treat bacterial infections since 1961, but because of resistance its usage has declined substantially It can sometimes result in allergic reactions that range in severity from a rash (i.e. patients with mononucleosis) to potentially lethal anaphylaxis.
It is the chief inhibitory neurotransmitter in the vertebrate central nervous system.
In animal tissues, carnitine concentrations are relatively high, typically between 0.2 and 6mmol/kg, with most in the heart and skeletal muscle.
Hantaviruses are rodent-borne pathogens normally transmitted to humans via feces, urine, and saliva of infected rodents.
It is one of the 20 amino acids in the genetic code (codon UGG).
This ARF product functions as a stabilizer of the tumor suppressor protein p53 as it can interact with, and sequester, the E3 ubiquitin-protein ligase MDM2, a protein responsible for the degradation of p53.
This gene plays a crucial role in neural crest development, and it can undergo oncogenic activation in vivo and in vitro by cytogenetic rearrangement.
They have a longer half-life than monomeric prolactin are not biologically active.
It is the N-methylated analogue of phenobarbital, and has similar indications, therapeutic value, and tolerability.
L. pneumophilia is the primary human pathogen in this group and is responsible for legionellosis or Legionnaires' disease.
The general population risk of 22q11.2 deletion is about 1 in 4,000 live births, and does not change with maternal age.
When present in the bloodstream, it acts on particular cells of the pituitary gland called gonadotropes.
Swine vesicular disease (SVD) is an acute, contagious viral disease of swine caused by the swine vesicular disease virus, an enterovirus.
Many liveborn infants with Patau syndrome die within the first weeks of life, and less than 10% survive longer than one year.
Low first trimester maternal serum levels are found not only in trisomy 21 but also in non-Down syndrome fetal aneuploidies.
Symptoms of acute toxicity in humans would likely mimic those of other organophosphates and include: increased secretions, difficulty breathing, diarrhea, urination, pupil contraction, slowness of the heart-very high doses may lead to convulsions and coma.
1,2-Dichlorobenzene, or ortho-dichlorobenzene (ODCB), is an organic compound with the formula C6H4Cl2.
The principal mechanism of action of flunisolide is to activate glucocorticoid receptors.
Varicella zoster virus (VZV) is a double-stranded alphaherpesvirus that causes seasonal outbreaks of chickenpox and shingles in non-immunized populations.
A popular dish with green beans, particularly at Thanksgiving, is green bean casserole.
Soluble Flt-1 (sFlt-1) is a splice variant of VEGF receptor 1 (Flt-1) which is produced by a variety of tissues.1 These proteins act as a receptor of vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF), a potent angiogenic growth factor.
Animals given very high levels in water developed liver and kidney tumors.
Influenza virus A H9: - Potentially nine different subtypes - Documented only in low pathogenic form - At least three H9 infections in humans have been confirmed
The two other components of the NHG are nuclear pleomorphism and mitotic activity.
Dust from Soybean storage or transport has been reported to result in exacerbation of asthma, and dust from Soybean flour may precipitate asthma in bakers.
A bridged-ring tetracyclic antidepressant that is both mechanistically and functionally similar to the tricyclic antidepressants, including side effects associated with its use.
Genotypes most commonly implicated in Gilbert syndrome are UGT1A1*28/*28 and UGT1A1*6/*6.
Sensitivity to Penicillium bears no relationship to sensitivity to the antibiotic Penicillin.
The accumulation of cholesterol esters in the arterial intima is a characteristic feature of atherosclerosis.
It is a colorless, sweet-smelling liquid that does not dissolve in water, but is soluble in most organic solvents.
Neutrophil levels are decreased in the following conditions: aplastic anemia, autoimmune disorder, cancer, chemotherapy, myelodysplastic syndrome and during a negative reaction to drugs.
It is usually thought to be a hybrid of the Oriental Plane, P. orientalis, with the American Plane (American sycamore), P. occidentalis.
The proton channel consists of three main subunits (a, b, c).
The angle formed by the Palatal plane (ANS-PNS) and the mandibular plane, using Menton (Gonion-Menton)
Bovine herpesvirus 1 (BHV-1) is a virus of the family Herpesviridae that causes several diseases worldwide in cattle, including rhinotracheitis, vaginitis, balanoposthitis, abortion, conjunctivitis, and enteritis.
The parent drug, disopyramide (trade names Norpace and Rythmodan) is an antiarrhythmic medication used in the treatment of ventricular tachycardia It is a sodium channel blocker and therefore classified as a Class 1a anti-arrhythmic agent.
It is the infectious agent that causes Babesiosis and is the most common species to infect humans in the United States.
Echoviruses are found in the gastrointestinal tract (hence it being part of the enterovirus genus) and exposure to the virus causes other opportunistic infections and diseases.
Metyrosine is only found in individuals that have used or taken this drug.
It is transmitted when an animal infected with RV bites an individual or the saliva from an infected animal comes into contact with an open wound.
A parasitic hemoflagellate of the subgenus Leishmania leishmania that infects man and rodents.
Beta-hexosaminidase is composed of two subunits, alpha and beta, which are encoded by the genes HEXA and HEXB, respectively.
The primary active metabolites of clozapine are norclozapine and clozapine N-oxide.
The reduction of TNFα alleviates symptoms of RA, CD and other immunologic diseases.
Beta-ureidoisobutyrate (betaUIB) is increased in the urine of patients with beta-ureidopropionase deficiency.
Peptostreptococcus anaerobius is a Gram positive anaerobic species and is commonly found in abdominal and female genitourinary infections.
CD22 or cluster of differentiation-22, is a molecule belonging to the SIGLEC family of lectins.
Aminoglycosides are a class of antibiotics that consists of many different agents, including gentamicin, tobramycin, amikacin, streptomycin, neomycin, and paromomycin, which are approved by the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) and most commonly used for the treatment of serious infections caused by aerobic gram-negative bacilli.
Products containing this drug are sold under a wide variety of names including (but not limited to)
The BRCA1 gene (breast cancer 1, early onset) is located on chromosome 17 at position q21, and the BRCA2 gene (breast cancer 2, early onset) is located on chromosome 13 at position q12.3.
So the flow rate through the regurgitant orifice is the same as the flow rate across the PISA surface.
Patients with FGFR1 involvement have various presentations including AML, T- or B-lymphoblastic leukemia/lymphoma (B-ALL), or a mixed phenotype acute leukemia.
Co-administation with ritonavir, ombitasvir and dasabuvir, referred to as the 3D regimen, has proven effective for the treatment of HCV genotype 1 infection.
Procoagulant phospholipids (PPLs), especially phosphatidylserine, are essential for the assembly of the coagulation complex (Mann et al, 1992), including tissue factor-factor VIIa complex, factor Ixa-factor VIIIa complex and factor Xa-factor Va complex, which leads ultimately to thrombin generation.
Mutations in this gene cause Diamond-Blackfan anemia (DBA), a constitutional erythroblastopenia characterized by absent or decreased erythroid precursors, in a subset of patients.
The NOTCH3 gene (notch 3) is located on chromosome 19p13.2-p13.1.
Clorazepate is principally prescribed in the treatment of alcohol withdrawal and epilepsy, although it is also a useful anxiolytic because of its long half-life.
They characteristically have clear wings with black or brown patterns, making wings appear to be banded.
The main types of these Mushrooms are agarics (e.g., the Button mushroom), boletes, chanterelles, tooth fungi, polypores, puffballs, jelly fungi, coral fungi, bracket fungi, stinkhorns, and cup fungi.
The shape of trans-fat molecules is more like cholesterol-raising saturated fat than a typical monounsaturated fatty acid.
Interleukin-1 alpha (IL-1α) is a protein that in humans is encoded by the IL1A gene.
Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms and a noncoding variant have been identified for this gene.
Other uses include Potent anti-T cell activity, distinguishing between human lymphocyte subsets, tumour tissue determination for transitional mucosa malignancies, identification of mammalian-infective metacyclic promastigote Leishmania major parasites from other life cycle forms also found in the sandfly host.
Entamoeba moshkovskii is a free-living environmental ameba discovered in 1941.
Although allowances are expressed as protein, the biological requirement is for amino acids.
Drugs that mimic the effects of stimulating postganglionic adrenergic sympathetic nerves.
This gene encodes a voltage-gated potassium channel required for repolarization phase of the cardiac action potential.
The main carrier is likely the rat, and probable sources of infection include contact with soil, water or other materials contaminated with the urine of an infected animal.
Trimethobenzamide (Tebamide, Tigan) is an antiemetic used to prevent nausea and vomiting.
Its range extends into southwest Asia in the mountains of northern Turkey and the Caucasus.
Stools, or feces, are comprised of water (approximately 75%), bacterial biomass, cells, and undigested carbohydrates, fiber, protein and fat.
Ganciclovir is used to treat complications from AIDS-associated cytomegalovirus infections.
It is an amphetamine derivative which was developed in the 1970s and used for the treatment of obesity.
Retinoic acid is responsible for all of the activity of vitamin A, save visual pigment effects, which require retinal (retinaldehyde), and for effects that require retinol in both the male and female reproductive tracts.
GAD has two isoforms, GAD65 and GAD67, which are highly homologous but found in distinct subsets of patients.
The ERBB2 gene (erb-b2 receptor tyrosine kinase 2) is located on chromosome 17q12.
Butyric acid is found in butter, parmesan cheese, vomit, and as a product of anaerobic fermentation (including in the colon and as body odor).
Potatoes are the world's most widely grown tuber crop, and the fourth largest crop in terms of fresh produce (after rice, wheat, and maize), but this ranking is inflated due to the high water content of fresh potatoes relative to that of other crops.
The protein is a member of the tumor necrosis factor receptor superfamily, which also contains TNFRSF1B.
Resistance or susceptibility has been linked to the presence of certain amino acids at various locations within the normal protein.
Transplacental transmission, that is passage from mother to offspring during pregnancy, has been shown to occur in dogs, cats, sheep and cattle.
The value is determined by the following formula from band intensities on a Southern blot: (normal unmethylated band intensity) / (sum of band intensities of the normal unmethylated + normal methylated bands)...that is, 2.8kband/(2.8k + 5.0k band).
The sulfite ion is the conjugate base of sulfurous acid.
The normal allele is PI*M. Patients homozygous for PI*Z or PI*S or heterozygous PI*Z/PI*S will have decreased alpha-1-antitrypsin levels, with PI*Z/PI*Z having lowest levels of 10-20% of normal.
PCBs were widely used for many applications, especially as dielectric fluids in transformers, capacitors, and coolants.
Human macrophages can synthesize a functional chitotriosidase, a highly conserved enzyme with a strongly regulated expression.
Veterinary Medicine: Sulfadimethoxine is a long-acting sulfonamide antibiotic that is used to treat skin and soft tissue infections caused by strains of staphylococcus aureus and escherichia coli and urinary tract infections caused by Escherichia coli, Staphylococcus, and Proteus mirabilis.
Cytosolic 5'-nucleotidase 1A (cN-1A; also known as Mup44, NT5C1A) antibodies are found in patients with inclusion body myositis (IBM), an autoimmune and degenerative disorder most common in persons 50 years or older.
The most common one, methylmercury, is produced mainly by microscopic organisms in the water and soil.
BBS proteins may also be involved in intracellular trafficking via microtubule-related transport.
Shortly after the appearance of the HBsAg, another antigen called hepatitis B e antigen (HBeAg) will appear.
The bba64 gene of Borrelia burdorferi encodes a surface-exposed lipoprotein.
Its insolubility suggests that it serves a structural function in the cytoplasm.
The overlap of allergen specificity between the groups seems to be moderate or even small.
Norquetiapine is the primary active metabolite of the parent drug quetiapine and is used to treat bipolar depression, major depressive episodes, and generalized anxiety disorder.
The fused genes can be detected by various molecular techniques, including FISH and real-time quantitative polymerase chain reaction (RT-qPCR).
Patient's serum is added to donor platelets along with varying concentrations of heparin.
Pyridoxine regulates the sodium and potassium levels and promoties red blood cell production.
Enfuvirtide (T20) is a fusion inhibitor anti-viral medication that binds to the first heptad repeat in the HIV-1gp41 coding region.
A semisynthetic cephalosporin antibiotic with antimicrobial activity similar to that of CEPHALORIDINE or CEPHALOTHIN, but somewhat less potent.
Concentrations of preformed vitamin A are highest in liver and fish oils.
Symptoms that can occur after crufomate has been ingested include dizziness, sweating, labored breathing, nausea, unconsciousness, vomiting, pupillary constriction, muscle cramp and excessive salivation.
It is considered an essential nutrient, because the body requires it to function properly.
Mutations at this locus have been associated with Meckel-Gruber Syndrome Type 2, and Joubert Syndrome 2, also known as Cerebello-oculorenal Syndrome 2.
Zinc deficiency may be due to excess urine losses, especially in cirrhosis, hemolytic anemias, sickle cell disease, alcoholism, diabetes, or chronic renal diseases.
Tricyclic antidepressant similar to IMIPRAMINE, but with more antihistaminic and sedative properties.
Infection with Babesia leads to a wide range and severity of symptoms.
The signs and symptoms of Wolf-Hirschhorn are related to the loss of multiple genes on the short arm of chromosome 4, including WHSC1, LETM1, and MSX1.
Thus, high levels of antibody to phase I in later specimens in combination with constant or falling levels of phase II antibodies and other signs of inflammatory disease suggest chronic Q fever.
Common side effects are headache; pain, redness, itching, or swelling around the injection site; stuffy or runny nose; throat irritation.
Immunoblasts are the most immature members of the protective cells involved in an immune response.
Sedentary activity can lead to increased adiposity, unhealthy triglyceride levels, heart issues, and shortened life spans.
It is used as therapy for children and adults with generalized or refractory partial seizures.
Experimentally, we can change properties of the cell's environment and quantify the effects on cell division.
The extracellular IgV-like domain of CD8-α interacts with to the α3 portion of the Class I MHC molecule.
Previously known to infect dogs, it has recently been associated with human infection.
Thirty-five patients were reported to be infected with B. microti by the Minnesota Department of Health in 2009.
Memantine is marketed under the brands Axura and Akatinol by Merz, Namenda by Forest, Ebixa and Abixa by Lundbeck and Memox by Unipharm.
In mammals, the sex of the offspring is determined by the sperm cells: a spermatozoon bearing a Y chromosome will lead to a male (XY) offspring, whereas one bearing an X chromosome will lead to a female (XX) offspring (the ovum always provides an X chromosome).
The Urokinase receptor, also known as uPA receptor or uPAR or CD87 (Cluster of Differentiation 87), is multidomain glycoprotein tethered to the cell membrane with a glycosylphosphotidylinositol (GPI) anchor.
Such challenge tests are performed to assess the cause and severity of asthma in patients.
Total lymphocytes are identified using a combination of the CD45 marker and FSC/SSC parameters, and total T cells with the CD3 marker from within the lymphocyte population.
3-Hydroxypropionic acid is a carboxylic acid, specifically a beta hydroxy acid.
Adenoviruses can cause other illnesses such as gastroenteritis, conjunctivitis, cystitis, and less commonly, neurological disease.
The protein encoded by this gene is a GTPase and a Golgi body transmembrane protein.
Interleukin 1b is a 17,500 molecular weight peptide derived primarily from macrophages, fibroblasts, endothelial cells, and B cells.
Oral glucose inhibits the release of somatotropin, or growth hormone.
Garlic (Allium sativum) is a perennial plant in the family Alliaceae and genus Allium, closely related to the onion, shallot, and leek.
Acrolein is not a suspected human carcinogen; no studies have been conducted on the carcinogenic effects of acrolein on humans, but studies on rats have shown an increase in cancerous tumors from ingestion, but not from inhalation.
Presence of anti-sense oligodeoxynucleotides of c-mpl inhibited megakaryocyte colony formation.
Their primary hosts are vertebrates; Leishmania commonly infects hyraxes, canids, rodents, and humans.
Occupational allergen mix 1 (pax1) detects horse dander (e3), cow dander (e4), goose feathers (e70), and chicken feathers (85) IgE antibodies.
It was first used in humans in the 1950s, but is now little used in humans (the closely related analogue, chlorpromazine, is still used as an antipsychotic in humans).
Sterols can reduce cholesterol in human subjects by up to 15%.
Amikacin is most often used for treating severe, hospital-acquired infections with multidrug resistant Gram negative bacteria such as Pseudomonas aeruginosa, Acinetobacter, and Enterobacter.
This protein is the testis determining factor (TDF), also referred to as the SRY protein, which initiates male sex determination.
Knockout studies in mice suggested that this cytokine plays an essential role in lymphoid cell survival.
Several alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding two different isoforms have been observed.
This gene encodes a protein involved in the regulation of the MAP kinase/ERKs signaling pathway, which affects cell division, differentiation, and secretion.
MPA is commonly marketed under the trade names CellCept (mycophenolate mofetil; Roche) and Myfortic (mycophenolate sodium; Novartis).
Specific IgE-antibodies to Anisakis can contribute to asthma, and it has been shown to cause urticaria, angioodema and anaphylaxis.
The two substrates of this enzyme are 5,10-methylenetetrahydrofolate and NAD+, whereas its 3 products are 5,10-methenyltetrahydrofolate, NADH, and H+.
Concentrations of calcitonin in plasma rise in patients with C cell tumors, and in some patieints with cancer of lung, breast and pancreas.
Malonyl-CoA is an intermediate in fatty acid biosynthesis, and also inhibits the transport of fatty acyl CoAs into mitochondria.
Necrotic RTC casts are seen in acute tubular necrosis and in nephrotoxic tubular diseases.
The three species of PCV are PCV1, PCV2, and PCV3.
The CDKN1B gene (cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor 1B (p27, Kip1)) is located on chromosome 12p13.1-p12.
Collagen, a key component of the animal extracellular matrix, is made through cleavage of pro-collagen by collagenase once it has been secreted from the cell.
The presence of 7-aminoflunitrazepam, a pharmacologically-active metabolite of flunitrazepam and in vitro degradation product, is useful for confirmation of flunitrazepam ingestion.
The age of the conceptus, beginning from the time of fertilization.
The development of tandem mass spectrometry screening by Edwin Naylor and others in the early 1990s led to a large expansion of potentially detectable congenital metabolic diseases that affect blood levels of organic acids.
Deletions and rearrangements in subtelomere regions have been associated with mental retardation and congenital abnormalities.
Mutations within this gene have been associated with Usher syndrome type IIIa.
The cells can be numerous or rarely seen; some can form large clusters.
High levels of immature eosinophils are seen in various leukemias, including acute myelogenous leukemia (AML) and acute eosinophilic leukemia (AEL).
Acyl glycines are produced through the action of glycine N-acyltransferase which is an enzyme that catalyzes the chemical reaction: acyl-CoA + glycine < -- > CoA + N-acylglycine.
Inhalation is the most common form of workplace exposure, because the solvents can readily evaporate.
Nifoxipam produces strong tranquillising and sleep-prolonging effects with a lower toxicity compared to lormetazepam and flunitrazepam in mice.
Netilmicin is not absorbed from the gut and is therefore only given by injection or infusion.
It is seen in comas due to various causes including hypoxia, drug-related intoxication, hypothermia, childhood encephalopathies and anesthesia.
There are 6 retinal layers viewable with OCT: the nerve fiber layer (NFL), the inner plexiform layer and ganglion cell layer (IPL+GCL), the inner nuclear layer (INL), the outer plexiform layer (OPL), the outer nuclear layer and photoreceptor inner segments (ONL+PIS), and photoreceptor outer segments (POS).
Two related substances, oxyhemoglobin and methemoglobin (410-418 nm and 403-410 nm absorption ranges, respectively) that are also released when heme is metabolized may be detected during this process.
Although the current infection rate with Plasmodium knowlesi is relatively low, one risk it presents is misdiagnosis with other forms of malarial parasites such as P. malariae especially when microscopy is used.
Individuals who inherit two copies of the mutation typically have a severe form of achondroplasia and usually are stillborn or die shortly after birth from respiratory failure.
Laminins are essential for formation and function of the basement membrane and have additional functions in regulating cell migration and mechanical signal transduction.
The degree of mitotic activity in breast carcinoma is one component of the Nottingham histologic grade (NHG), which is a prognostic indicator for patients with breast carcinoma.
It is a colorless liquid with a slightly irritating, fruity odour.
Individuals heterozygous for antithrombin deficiency have a fivefold increased risk for venous thrombosis.
It is commonly marketed by Neomed under the trade name Tazomed and Wyeth under the trade name Tazocin or Zosyn.
The second occurs primarily in the kidney and forms the physiologically active 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D, also known as calcitriol.
Anti-Müllerian hormone also known as AMH is a protein that, in humans, is encoded by the AMH gene.
This sequestration changes the cellular localization of PML such that IF staining becomes more diffuse, known as a microgranular pattern.
The PRX gene (peroxiredoxin 6) is located on chromosome 1q25.1.
The adult form is found in various CARNIVORA but not humans.
Beta-cortol levels are significantly higher in premenopausal women with leiomyomas than in age-matched healthy premenopausal control women.
The disease is not progressive and has an excellent prognosis.
Severe withdrawal side effects can usually be prevented by gradually reducing the dose over a period of time before treatment is stopped completely.
Synthetic cannabinoids interact with the same brain receptors as THC (the active drug present in marijuana) and have been demonstrated to produce similar effects.
Veterinary Medicine: Arsenic is seldom reported since the concentrations normally found in animal feeds are significantly less than the toxic dietary concentration.
Nabumetone works by reducing the effects of hormones that cause pain and inflammation.
Xp22.33 and Yp11.32 regions of the sex chromosomes contain the pseudoautosomal region 1 (PAR1), a homologous region between the X & Y chromosomes that is paired at male meiosis and undergoes recombination.
Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms have been reported.
Lipoxygenase (LOX) is an enzyme that catalyzes polyunsaturated fatty acids such as arachidonic acid to form hyperperoxides through the eicosanoid pathway.
Codon 141 codes for either phenylalanine (F) or leucine (L).
It is used as a flavourant in a wide range of food; usually grated.
The disease is also seen in countries of South America.
The items in this supplement extend the CHA's assessment of the dimensions of vision and hearing to address patterns of impairment and change in these senses for persons with both congenital and acquired deafblindness.
Chronic Tea dust exposure has been reported to increase the prevalence of respiratory symptoms and can result in a significant degree of small airway obstruction in Tea workers
A triple bolus test is usually ordered and interpreted by endocrinologists.
The SLC25A13 gene (solute carrier family 25 (aspartate/glutamate carrier), member 13) is located on chromosome 7q21.3.
Two alpha chains plus two beta chains constitute HbA, which in normal adult life comprises about 97% of the total hemoglobin; alpha chains combine with delta chains to constitute HbA-2, which with HbF (fetal hemoglobin) makes up the remaining 3% of adult hemoglobin.
The partial thromboplastin time (PTT) or activated partial thromboplastin time (aPTT or APTT) is a performance indicator measuring the efficacy of both the "intrinsic" (now referred to as the contact activation pathway) and the common coagulation pathways.
The black imported fire ant seems to be less tolerant of cold and a less dominant species than the Red Imported Fire Ant; its northern and southern ranges are also much less extensive.
The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the serpin family.
Cathinone differs from many other amphetamines in that it has a ketone functional group.
JWH stands for John W. Huffman, one of the inventors of the compound.
Found in plant and animal foods, such as salmon, vegetable oils, and some nuts and seeds, eating moderate amounts of polyunsaturated (fat in place of saturated and trans fats can benefit your health.
A grass species producing pollen, which often induces hay fever, asthma and conjunctivitis in sensitized individuals.
Citrullinated peptide (CCP) is a naturally occurring protein that is produced during the metabolism of ornithine to arginine.
Serratia marcescens is an important cause of hospital-acquired urinary tract and bloodstream infections.
HIV-2 is mostly related to simian immunodeficiency virus endemic in sooty mangabeys (Cercocebus atys atys) (SIVsmm), a monkey species inhabiting the forests of littoral West Africa.
Three alternatively spliced transcripts encoding different isoforms have been described.
The major active metabolite of Risperidone is 9-hydroxyrisperidone, which has similar pharmacodynamics to risperidone and remains in the body for much longer.
Common names for the genus include glasswort, pickleweed, and marsh samphire; these common names are also used for some species not in Salicornia.
Methods for detection in urine specimens usually involve gas chromatography-mass spectrometry.
Erythromycin (and other macrolides) can induce Clindamycin resistance in bacteria that are already resistant to erythromycin through well understood molecular mechanisms described in (Woods CR.
Classical RHDV and RHDVa comprise one serotype (RHDV1), while RHDV2 belongs to a different serotype.
Additionally, studies have found that an increased amount of GFAP is found in serum following TBIs and stroke.
Several single nucleaotide polymorphisms (SNPs) with the CYP3A5 are associated with absence of CYP3A5 expression in the liver.
Adrenoceptor Alpha 2A (ADRA2A) gene is a protein coding gene that encodes for receptors distributed within the central nervous system and periphery.
It is involved in many forms of chromosomal translocations in leukemia.
TRIM46 is reported to be involved in the proliferation of multiple types of cancer cells including lung and breast cancer.
It is isolated from soil, water, and clinical specimens (urine, sputum, blood).
Together with acetic acid, glycolic acid, and oxalic acid, glyoxylic acid is one of the C2 carboxylic acids.
Its antioxidant activity has been tested to reduce ferric iron in the ferric reducing antioxidant power (FRAP) assay, and it has been suggested that its catechol structure conveys the antioxidant effect in plasma and in erythrocytes.
Mutations in the GFM1 gene are associated with combined oxidative phosphorylation deficiency 1 (COXPD1), a mitochondrial disease resulting in early rapidly progressive hepatoencephalopathy.
An elevated percentage of RPs is diagnostic of increased marrow platelet production, such as in response to idiopathic thrombocytopenic purpura.
Allspice is also used in herbal therapies and as a perfume for soaps.
Elevated sIL-2R in serum and other body fluids may be a marker for the advanced stages of certain cancer as well as autoimmune diseases.
The prevalence of V600 BRAF mutations that are V600K in melanoma tumors ranges across studies from 6-30%.
HLA antibodies showing the prozone effect represent antibody specificities against HLA antigens that were not apparent in undiluted patient specimen, but became apparent after dilution.
Vitamin A plays a role in several important physiological processes, including vision, embryonic development, gene expression, and immune function.
It is mainly a pathogen of PIGS, but also can infect HORSES.
In audiology, intensity is often expressed in the unit of measure decibels of hearing level (dB HL), which is a ratio of the measured sound intensity to a reference sound intensity value.
A type of synthetic cannabis sold in Australasia is known as Kronic.
Zucchini is the more common name in North America, Australia and Italy, while courgette is more commonly used in Britain, Ireland, France, New Zealand and South Africa.
Flualprazolam is a benzodiazepine that is structurally related to the triazolobenzodiazepine, alprazolam.
Mutations in this gene are associated with hemorrhagic telangiectasia type 2, also known as Rendu-Osler-Weber syndrome 2.
Diagnosis of RV is done on two tissue specimens from the brain that are analyzed by direct fluorescent antibody (DFA), mouse inoculation, tissue culture and polymerase chain reaction.
Acyl-CoA dehydrogenases are an important class of enzymes in mammalian cells because of their role in metabolizing fatty acids present in ingested food materials.
Mutations in SF3B1 are predominantly subclonal genetic events in CLL, and hence are likely later events in the progression of CLL.
One of these variants is c.5673A>G (rs3798220), which results in a change from isoleucine to methionine at position 4399 (p.Ile4399Met, also known previously as position 1891).
Together with carnitine palmitoyltransferase I, the encoded protein oxidizes long-chain fatty acids in the mitochondria.
It is administered by injection into muscles or glands with the effects lasting approximately three months.
The pressure and solute gradients between the patient's blood and the dialysate fluid determine the extent of fluid and solute removal.
Veterinary Medicine: Apramycin (also Nebramycin II) is an aminoglycoside antibiotic used in veterinary medicine.
Early diagnosis and treatment may prevent organ damage and preserve cognitive function.
Whey protein is the protein contained in whey, the watery portion of milk that separates from the curds when making cheese.
Although lycopene is chemically a carotene, it has no vitamin A activity.
Benzopyrene is a product of incomplete combustion at temperatures between 300 and 600 °C.
It has been proposed as a primary component of the microbicidal oxidase system of phagocytes.
Tryptophoan (or L-tryptophan) is an amino acid, a protein building block that can be found in many plant and animal proteins.
The coronary artery branch, lesion or stent start and end segment positions specify a more precise location within a given segment, and the start and end coordinates specify the combined segment/segment position information.
Codon 112 codes for either methionine (M) or threonine (T).
Oxycodone, a semi synthetic narcotic analgesic, is structurally similar to codeine.
Transcriptional intermediary factor 1-gamma (TIF1-gamma or E3 ubiquitin-protein ligase TRIM33), induces inactivation of the SMAD4 protein, which promotes cell growth (including malignant tumours) by inhibiting the anti-proliferative effects of TGF-beta.
There is no definitive evidence that CPA is involved with enteritis, abomasitis and/or enterotoxemia in cattle, horses, goats, and pigs.
RBC levels measured to detect chronic exposure to systemic insecticides.
The five B subunits bind to the host cell receptor present on endothelial cells.
Some people lack sufficient xanthine oxidase, and thus xanthine cannot be converted to uric acid.
Dibenzepin (Noveril, Anslopax, Deprex, Ecatril, Neodit, Victoril) is a tricyclic antidepressant (TCA) used widely throughout Europe for the treatment of depression.
It has become naturalised in semi-tropical and tropical parts of the United States, and has been planted in many parts of the world.
The difference value between two measurements that represent a significant change at the confidence level provided.
The ITGB3 protein product is the integrin beta chain beta 3.
Intact FGF23 is cleaved into N-terminal and C-terminal fragments, which are no longer active.
The round, smooth-skinned, blue-black berries are juicy and sweet and only about 10 mm in diameter.
A genus of tick-borne protozoan parasites that infests the red blood cells of mammals, including humans.
Wall pellitory is a common weed around the Mediterranean and along the West coast of Europe as far north as central England.
However, its use is controversial, and it is illegal in some parts of the world, including Thailand, Australia, and many other countries, as well as several states in the United States.
3,4-Dihydroxybutyric acid is a normal human urinary metabolite that is excreted in increased concentration in patients with succinic semialdehyde dehydrogenase (SSADH) deficiency.
Although allergic reactions to Honey bee stings are common, allergy to Bumble bee venom is an uncommon form of Hymenoptera venom allergy.
Cockroaches exist worldwide, with the exception of the polar regions and in elevations above 2,000m (6,500ft).
This gene encodes an enzyme that catalyzes the conversion of N-acetyl_L-aspartic acid (NAA) to aspartate and acetate.
The cake left after extraction of the oil is a valuable feeding substance for pigs.
Several diseases result in deposition of iron(III) oxyhydroxide in tissues in an insoluble form.
The PTCH gene (patched 1) gene is located on chromosome 9q22.3.
Norescitalopram is a major metabolite of escitalopram (brand names Lexapro, Cipralex, Seroplex, Lexamil), an antidepressant of the selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor (SSRI) class.
Oxazepam is a short-acting benzodiazepine used to treat anxiety disorders and alcohol withdrawal symptoms.
The name Millet is used to describe seeds from several taxonomically divergent species of grass.
This gene encodes a member of the beta chemokine receptor family, which is predicted to be a seven transmembrane protein similar to G protein-coupled receptors.
HCoV-HKU1 is a common cause of both upper and lower respiratory tract self-limiting infections, most frequently in young children.
It can also be used as a measure of the health of water in natural bodies such as rivers or lakes, or in man made water reservoirs.
It is classified with the Almond in the subgenus Amygdalus, distinguished from the other subgenera by the corrugated seed shell.
Unlike norovirus, this virus generally only causes mild gastroenteritis in young children.
UDP-glucuronosyltransferase enzymes are part of the glucuronidation pathway that transforms small lipophilic molecules, such as irinotecan, into water-soluble, excretable metabolites.
It is the most common of all domestic flies, accounting for about 90% of all flies in human habitations, and indeed one of the most widely distributed insects, found all over the world; it is considered a pest that can carry serious diseases.
It is toxic to ants, cutworms, armyworms, loopers, chiggars, chinch bugs, flea hoppers, crickets, diabrotica, drosophila, earwigs, wire worms, grasshoppers, flies, Japanese beetles, leaf miners, lygus, mosquitoes, wasps, roaches, slugs, snails, sowbugs, webworms, spittlebugs, termites, thrips, ticks and many more.
The MPI gene (secretory leukocyte peptidase inhibitor) is located on chromosome 20q12.
Ragweed is a pollen-producing weed which may induce hayfever, asthma and conjunctivitis in sensitized patients.
MPS can be diagnosed by testing for the deficient or absent enzyme.
Propionyl-CoA is thus of great importance as a glucose precursor.
Alprazolam is also sometimes used to treat depression, fear of open spaces (agoraphobia), and premenstrual syndrome.
Heterozygous Hb Lepore is similar to beta-thalassemia major, however the clinical course is variable.
Calcitonin is a 32 amino acid polypeptide hormone that is produced in humans by the C cells of the thyroid.
Transformation may take place as a primary or a secondary process.
Captopril acts to suppress the RENIN-ANGIOTENSIN SYSTEM and inhibits pressure responses to exogenous angiotensin.
Secretin is a peptide hormone produced in the S cells of the duodenum in the Crypts of Lieberkuhn.
A genus of gram-negative, mostly facultatively anaerobic bacteria in the family mycoplasmataceae.
Vitamin B12 is required for proper red blood cell formation, neurological function, and DNA synthesis.
(From Webster, 3d ed; from Bold & Wynne, Introduction to the Algae, 2d ed, pp1-6)
T-box genes encode transcription factors involved in the regulation of developmental processes.
The formation of micelles is a mechanical process known as emulsification which breaks fat into small droplets and makes the droplets water soluble.
It is found in serum and in various bodily tissues, but is most commonly associated with the liver.
Robert Guthrie is given much of the credit for pioneering the earliest screening for phenylketonuria in the late 1960s using blood samples on filter paper obtained by pricking a newborn baby's heel on the second day of life to get a few drops of blood.
The antibodies that attack the neural tissue develop in response to tumor cells.
The GPR143 gene (G protein-coupled receptor 143) is located on chromosome Xp22.3.
The NOD2 gene (nucleotide-binding oligomerization domain containing 2) is located on chromosome 16q21.
Chlorphenamine (INN) or chlorpheniramine (USAN, former BAN), commonly marketed as its salt chlorphenamine maleate (CPM; Chlor-Trimeton®, Piriton®, Chlor-Tripolon®), is a first-generation antihistamine used in the prevention of the symptoms of allergic conditions such as rhinitis and urticaria.
Then anti-VWF and dye are added in order to measure how much patient VWF combined to the collagen.
The SACS gene (sacsin molecular chaperone) is located on chromosome 13q12.
The latter is converted by methylmalonyl-CoA mutase (one of a very few Vitamin B12 dependent enzymes) to give succinyl-CoA.
Most cases of CML are due to a fusion of BCR exon 13 (e13 or b2) or BCR exon 14 (e14 or b3) to the ABL exon 2 (a2).
Cytochrome P450 1A2 (CYP1A2)-mediated drug metabolism is highly variable and often based on a patient's genotype.
Porcine parvovirus (PPV) causes reproductive failure of swine characterized by embryonic and fetal infection and death, usually in the absence of outward maternal clinical signs.
In Australia it is also known as asthma weed, due to the high incidence of allergy.
Tyramine (4-hydroxyphenethylamine; para-tyramine, mydrial or uteramin) is an amino acid derived from the amino acid tyrosine that helps regulate blood pressure.
The accumulation of ITP can be beneficial in that it can substitute for guanosine triphosphate (GTP) in a reaction that leads to ATP production.
C-C motif chemokine ligand 2 (CCL2), also known as monocyte chemoattractant protein 1 (MCP-1), is a chemokine that is produced by a number of cell types including endothelial, fibroblasts, epithelial, smooth muscle, mesangial, astrocytic, monocytic, and microglial cells.
This single chain zymogen is converted to a two-chain serine protease with an heavy chain (alpha-factor XIIa) and a light chain.
Fexofenadine (Allegra, Telfast, Fastofen, Tilfur, Vifas) is an antihistamine drug used in the treatment of hayfever and similar allergy symptoms.
The RAI1 gene (retinoic acid induced 1) is located on chromosome 17p11.2.
Prostaglandin E2 is a potent vasodilator and also a stimulus for Renin release.
Ara h 8 appears to have low stability to roasting and but resists gastric digestion, as do many/most food allergens.
There is considered to be some risk of allergic reaction to the drug in occasional patients (particularly those with asthma), but a similar incidence of allergic reactions has been observed by using other members of the same drug class (non-depolarizing neuromuscular blocking drugs).The drug is commonly used in modern anaesthesia.
Abusers crush the tablets and injest the powder orally, intranasally, or via intravenous, intramuscular or subcutaneous injections.
It is required by the body for the formation of coenzymes NAD and NADP.
Early adjustment side effects can include nausea and vomiting, numbness, blurred vision, stomach pains and temporary dizziness.
A plant species of the Salvia genus known as a spice and medicinal plant.
The concentration of Bla g 1 in faeces of adult females is 6- to 7- and 30-fold higher than in adult males and nymphs, respectively, probably because adult females process more food than do other German cockroaches
Fosamprenavir is an antiretroviral drug used in the treatment of HIV.
There is also research investigating the changes in an individual's lung cancer antibody profile from their baseline values to predict early lung cancer development.
The antihypertensive actions of reserpine are a result of its ability to deplete catecholamines (among the others) from peripheral sympathetic nerve endings.
Naturally acquired aviadenovirus diseases include enteritis, splenitis, inclusion body hepatitis, bronchitis, pulmonary congestion ventriculitis, pancreatitis, and oedema, depending on the species of bird infected.
It is highly regarded as a sport and food fish.
On April 12, 2003, scientists working at the Michael Smith Genome Sciences Centre in Vancouver, British Columbia finished mapping the genetic sequence of a coronavirus believed to be linked to SARS.
In patients with mCRC cetuximab is used in combination with irinotecan or by itself in patients who are unable to tolerate irinotecan.
A higher index value indicates that the addition of normal plasma has not succeeded in correcting the abnormally elevated aPTT, therefore representing the possibility of an inhibitor.
FeLV is usually transmitted between infected cats when the transfer of saliva or nasal secretions is involved.
In men and women with more than one X chromosome, the number of Barr bodies visible at interphase is always one less than the total number of X chromosomes.
Mutations in the SARS2 are associated with hyperuricemia, pulmonary hypertension, renal failure, and alkalosis, and hyperuricemia.
The National Institute of Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH) estimates that more than 3 million workers in the United States are potentially exposed to lead in the workplace.
DHEA is produced by the adrenal cortex of the fetus, this is converted to estriol by the placenta.
Genetic deficiencies in the creatine biosynthetic pathway lead to various severe neurological defects.
While length ranges from 8-30 micrometers, their widths are similar across species.
LpPLA2 has been more useful for assessing patients with a borderline risk than traditional biomarkers.
Mutations in this gene have been associated with X-linked dyserythropoietic anemia and thrombocytopenia.
Long term use of lamivudine unfortunately leads to emergence of a resistant hepatitis B virus (YMDD) mutant.
Leishmaniasis is found in about 88 countries, most in the tropics and subtropics.
2-Hexanol (or hexan-2-ol) is a six carbon alcohol in which the OH group is located on the second carbon atom.
An anabolic steroid used mainly as a growth substance in animals.
Meals are defined as regular eating episodes that may include a variety of foods consisting of grains and/or starches, meat and/or meat alternatives, fruits and vegetables, and milk or milk products.
Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
White blood cell (WBC) casts contain WBCs in their matrix and are most frequently detected in acute pyelonephritis, a direct infection of the kidney.
Von Willebrand factor (vWF) is a high-molecular-weight plasma protein produced by endothelial cells and megakaryocytes.
TTV, for Transfusion Transmitted Virus or Torque teno virus is extremely common, even in healthy individuals - as much as 100% prevalent in some countries, and in approximately 10% of blood donors in the UK and the US.
In the alpha amino acids, the amino and carboxylate groups are attached to the same carbon atom, which is called the α-carbon.
Norfloxacin blocks bacterial enzyme activity of DNA gyrase and topoisomerase that are required to synthesize mRNA and DNA for bacterial replication.
Marked elevation of urinary 3- Hydroxysebacic acid has also been described in a malnourished infant with glycogen storage disease, mimicking long-chain L-3-hydroxyacyl-CoA dehydrogenase deficiency, a defect in the beta-oxidation of fatty acids characterized by massive excretion of 3-hydroxydicarboxylic acids in the urine and accumulation of 3-hydroxy fatty acids in serum)., , .
Glutaric aciduria type I lead to nonspecific developmental delay, hypotonia, and macrocephaly with cerebral atrophy of prenatal onset.
These antibodies appear to recognize oxidized protein that has resulted from inflammatory immune responses.
It includes variables such as age, heart rate, signs and symptoms, and past medical history.
The neural-development effects of PKU are primarily due to the disruption of neurotransmitter synthesis.
The detection of GDH in a fecal specimen confirms the presence of C. difficile.
The sand fly, which carries the promastigote stage of L. tropica, is the vector.
Studies have shown that the genetic diversity is at least as high in the European genotype as in the North American genotype and the diversity of European type PRRSV has a marked geographical pattern, with exceptionally high genetic diversity in Italian sequences.
They are used to determine the clotting tendency of blood, in the measure of warfarin dosage, liver damage and vitamin K status.
Bile alcohols are preferentially excreted as glucuronides into the urine, which constitute about 10% of total bile acids.
Common side effects include dizziness, dry mouth, nausea, and low potassium levels.
Phosphomannomutase 2 (PMM2) is involved in the synthesis of GDP-mannose from mannose-1-phosphate.
They are made up of several components, including alpha/beta (nTri a 21), gamma (nTri a 20), and omega (nTri a 19) based on their electrophoretic mobility at a low pH.
Amphiphysin is a protein associated with the cytoplasmic surface of synaptic vesicles and is encoded by the AMPH gene.
Its isomers include n-butanol, 2-butanol, and tert-butanol, all of which are more important industrially.
It is sold under the brand names Spectrobid (Pfizer) and Penglobe (AstraZeneca).
Side effects mainly CNS manifestations i.e. headache, irritability, depression, convulsions.
In human studies, vanilloylglycine has been detected in urines of individuals consuming cocoa powder dissolved in milk.
Measuring growth hormone after administration of glucose is used as a screening test for acromegaly and to monitor the response to treatment.
It is used to treat partial seizures (with and without generalization) in adults and partial and generalized seizures associated with Lennox-Gastaut syndrome in children.
Elevation of one or more organic acids is diagnostic for organic aciduria.
The KCNH2 gene (potassium voltage-gated channel subfamily H member 2) is located on chromosome 7q36.1.
Euroglyphus maynei is prevalent in humid geographical areas throughout the world.
Studies have also shown that CD27+IgD+IgM+ B lymphocytes exhibit increased auto-reactivity and activation functionality.
Testing for IgE antibodies may be used to help diagnose an allergic disease or the cause of an anaphylactic episode in a patient.
It is used for treating vertigo, motion sickness, and nausea associated with pregnancy.
When oxycodone is used for a long time, it may become habit-forming, causing mental or physical dependence.
The new viruses are formed and bud when the newly formed ribonucleicprotein complexes and structural proteins reach the plasma membrane.
The cells called 'round cells' in semen and prostatic fluid are mostly comprised of white blood cells and immature spermatogenic cells.
Synthesized from glutamic acid and ammonia, it is the principal carrier of nitrogen.
This gene is a member of the mitochondrial carrier subfamily of solute carrier protein genes.
Implicit a-wave time is the amount of time between the flash onset and the trough of the retinal a-wave produced on an electroretinogram (ERG).
14/16 patients with cow milk allergy had specific IgE antibodies to goas milk.
Shiga-like toxin is generated by some strains of Escherichia coli, known as Stx-producing E. coli (STEC).
Ramoplanin (INN) is a glycolipodepsipeptide antibiotic drug derived from strain ATCC 33076 of Actinoplanes.
After it enters the host cell, the VP7 glycoprotein is lost.
3-(3-Hydroxyphenyl)propanoic (hMPP) acid is one of the major metabolites of ingested caffeic acid (caffeic acid is unrelated to caffeine).
These ADA increases are caused by the cellular immune response in the fluid compartment, especially in the activation of T lymphocytes.
Dahlia is a genus of bushy, tuberous, perennial plants native to Mexico, Central America, and Colombia.
It is somewhat soluble in water and readily evaporates into the air.
In humans, triglycerides are a mechanism for storing unused calories, and their high concentrations in blood correlates with the consumption of starchy and fatty foods.
Hematopoietic progentitor (stem) cells give rise to all of the blood cells, these cells are less mature than blasts.
However, treatment of Fabry disease with enzyme therapy decreases the Gb3 in the endothelium, but does not eliminate disease symptoms to the degree expected.
Bahia grass (Paspalum notatum), also known as common bahia and Pensacola bahia, is a tropical to subtropical perennial grass (family Poaceae).
Gliadins are naturally occurring water and salt insoluble proteins of wheat.
The total power is important for calculating the relative power of each frequency, which when observed over time, can help identify shifts in brain function.
Two small peptide chains removed from the N-terminal segment of the alpha chains of fibrinogen by the action of thrombin during the blood coagulation process.
This class I molecule is a heterodimer consisting of a heavy chain and a light chain (beta-2 microglobulin).
5-aminosalicylate (5-ASA) is a small organic acid that is absorbed in the small intestine where it produces local immunosuppression.
Tacrine has been used to stimulate respiratory secretions, to counter the effects of muscle relaxants, and to treat Alzheimer's disease and other central nervous system disorders.
Typing is usually done by hemagglutination-inhibition and/or neutralization with type-specific antisera or by molecular methods.
Since 1500, it has been used as a bulk laxative, functioning through its high water-binding capacity.
This gene encodes an integral membrane protein that transports the neurotransmitter serotonin from synaptic spaces into presynaptic neurons.
The Dartmouth-Northern New England Primary Care Cooperative Information Project (Dartmouth CO-OP Project) chart system has been developed to assess the functional status of adults and adolescents.
Reducing sugars include glucose, fructose, glyceraldehyde, lactose, arabinose and maltose.
Haemophilus parasuis is a gram-negative organism that is harbored in the upper respiratory tract of healthy pigs.
Resistance or susceptibility has been linked to the presence of certain amino acids at various locations within the normal protein.
Within each genotype there is nucleotide divergence of up to 30% (Leung et al., 2010).
Cells that line the inner and outer surfaces of the body by forming cellular layers (epithelium) or masses.
The risk for the fetus can be derived from the general population risk as well as prenatal genetic testing of fetal DNA.Angelman syndrome is primarily caused by the functional loss of the UBE3A gene on chromosome 15.
Deficiency of HIBADH enzyme is thought to cause 3-hydroxyisobutyric aciduria since 3-hydroxyisobutyric acid is an intermediate in the catabolism of valine.
Used to assess T cell function in patients havingimmunosuppressive therapy and to evaluate patients with cellular or humoral immunodeficiency diseases, which include SCID (Severe Combined Immunodeficiency), CVID (Common Variable Immunodeficiency), and DiGeorge syndrome.
This factor enables cells to initiate the blood coagulation cascades, and it functions as the high-affinity receptor for the coagulation factor VII.
This is usually of greater concern in poultry houses where the water content of manure can be a major concern to producers but does not necessarily impact the health of the birds.
Islet cell antigen (ICA) 512 is a receptor-tyrosine phosphatase-like protein associated with the secretory granules of neuroendocrine cells.
Curvularia is a mold which is associated with allergy in the literature and is frequently reported in mold spore counts.
The cDNA encodes for a mitochondrial precursor protein which is cleaved upon mitochondrial import and predicted to yield a mature peptide of approximately 43.7-KDa.
Glycosaminoglycans (GAGs) or mucopolysaccharides are long unbranched polysaccharides consisting of a repeating disaccharide unit.
The smaller fragment generated from the cleavage of complement C3 by C3 CONVERTASE.
When attacked, DMSP lyase breaks down DMSP into DMS (g) and acrylate.
In patients with non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC), studies have shown that levels of expression of ERCC1 in tumors are indicative of treatment outcome for various types of chemotherapy.
Boron is an essential plant nutrient, and as an ultratrace mineral is necessary for the optimal health of animals, though its physiological role in animals is poorly understood.
Scrapie is a fatal, degenerative disease affecting the central nervous system of sheep and goats.
According to the Fourth Annual Report on Carcinogens (NTP 85-002, 1985), this substance has been listed as a known carcinogen.
Vitamin A is critical for vision and also supports cell growth and differentiation, playing a critical role in the normal formation and maintenance of the heart, lungs, kidneys, and other organs.
New Delhi Metallo-beta-lactamase (NDM) is an enzyme that makes bacteria resistant to a broad range of beta-lactam antibiotics, including those in the carbapenem family.
HIgh levels (1,000-2,000 or greater) suggest glucogonoma in a diabetic.
The guar bean or cluster bean (Cyamopsis tetragonolobus) is an annual legume and the source of guar gum
This activated plasma factor XI triggers the middle phase of the intrisic pathway of blood coagulation by activating factor IX.
In catabolism, water is used to break bonds in order to generate smaller molecules (e.g. glucose, fatty acids and amino acids to be used for fuels for energy use or other purposes).
Common pigweed is a common weed found throughout the world, in particular in Europe, the USA, Brazil, Korea, Spain, Mozambique, Mexico, Hungary, Germany, and Afghanistan.
Other diagnostic methods include Pap smear, culture and PCR with sensitivities of 56%, 78% and 84%, respectively.
Expression of this protein is associated with tubulointerstitial inflammation, including proteinuric nephropathy.
Adenoviruses can cause other illnesses such as gastroenteritis, conjunctivitis, cystitis, and less commonly, neurological disease.
This gene encodes coagulation factor III which is a cell surface glycoprotein.
Aneusomy (varying number) of chromosome 7 is evaluated by using a DNA probe that marks the centromeric region of chromosome 7.
Uveal melanoma can be difficult to treat due to the lack of early signs or symptoms of disease., and the finding of monosomy 3 was correlated with both the likelihood of metastatic disease as well as decreased survival.
Different cyclins exhibit distinct expression and degradation patterns which contribute to the temporal coordination of each mitotic event.
Vedolizumab has proven to be a safe and effective treatment for IBD based in clinical research.
Tf is the most prevalent and studied glycoprotein, and the evaluation of its isoforms is one of the screening assays used to rule out CDG.
Trimethoprim is a synthetic (man-made) antibiotic that interferes with the production of tetrahydrofolic acid, a chemical necessary in protein production.
It has bactericidal activity and is used often as a topical disinfectant.
Transmission of the classical scrapie agent is not completely understood but apparently healthy sheep infected with the agent can transmit disease.
Bacterial vaginosis (BV) is the most common vaginal infection, occurring when there is an overgrowth of anaerobic bacteria in the vagina.
Hemolytic transfusion reactions have rarely been attributed to Bg antibodies.
A wide spectrum aliphatic organophosphate insecticide widely used for both domestic and commercial agricultural purposes.
It is strongly suspected in mediating the development of type-2 diabetes mellitus.
The PWS gene (Prader-Willi syndrome chromosome region) gene is located on chromosome 15q11-q12.
In sensitive organisms, it inhibits protein synthesis by binding to 50S ribosomal subunits.
In systemic lupus erythematosis, the Zap-70 receptor pathway is missing and Syk takes its place.
ACE helps convert angiotensin I (inactive) to angiotensin II (active).
Bile is produced in the liver and stored and concentrated in the gallbladder.
Treatment of pelvic actinomycosis associated with intrauterine device involves removal of device and antibiotic treatment.
Too much chloride from salted foods can; increase blood pressure, or cause a buildup of fluid in people with congestive heart failure, cirrhosis, or kidney disease.
Tiamulin is a diterpene antimicrobial with a pleuromutilin chemical structure similar to that of valnemulin.
Note that the nine exons of both the telomeric and centromeric copies are designated historically as exon 1, 2a, 2b, and 3-8.
The ATRX gene (alpha thalassemia/mental retardation syndrome X-linked) is located on chromosome Xq21.1.
In bacteria, the bacterial DHFR enzyme is targeted by synthetic antibiotics such as trimethoprim.
The therapeutic efficacy of methsuximide is largely due to its pharmacologically active metabolite, N-desmethylmethsuximide (normethsuximide), which has a longer half-life and attains much higher plasma levels than its parent.
These patients are often neutropenic for extended periods of time, leaving them susceptible to bacterial and fungal infections, including Candidal infections.
It is also used in combination with other antibiotics such as tazobactam.
There are three genera of influenza virus, identified by antigenic differences in their nucleoprotein and matrix protein: Influenzavirus A that has been linked to all flu pandemics and is known to infect humans, other mammals and birds (see also avian influenza); Influenzavirus B, known to infect humans and seals; Influenzavirus C, known to infect humans and pigs.
It is commonly used together with CK20 when making such diagnoses.
They have been shown to prevent hypertension-related morbidity and mortality although the mechanism is not fully understood.
In the RBC membrane, the Kell glycoprotein is covalently linked to the XK protein, a multipass membrane protein thought to have a role in transport.
It inhibits both circulating and clot-bound thrombin, while also inhibiting thrombin-mediated platelet activation and aggregation.
This gene encodes a transmembrane protein which is a member of the immunoglobulin superfamily.
HADD is clinically manifested by localized pain, swelling, and tenderness about the affected joint along with variable limitation of joint motion.
Treatment protocol during school hours: medication orders (type medication, dosage amount and time), 4.
Glycophorins A (GYPA) and B (GYPB) are major sialoglycoproteins of the human erythrocyte membrane which bear the antigenic determinants for the MN and Ss blood groups.
Saccharopinuria (high amounts of saccharopine in the urine) and saccharopinemia (an excess of saccharopine in the blood) are conditions present in some inherited disorders of lysine degradation.
Mutations in this gene cause Gaucher disease, a lysosomal storage disease characterized by an accumulation of glucocerebrosides.
All four dengue serotypes can produce the full spectrum of illness and severity.
It appears as a white crystalline powder with a slight sweet taste.
Such effects may be of relevance to the development of low-renin essential hypertension.
ADA-deficient individuals suffer from severe combined immunodeficiency (SCID) and are unable to produce significant numbers of mature T or B lymphocytes.
Cystatin C is usually filtered out of the blood by the kidneys and broken down without being excreted in the urine.
Jk^b can be found in 74% Caucasians, 49% Blacks, and 76% Asians populations.
The Bartlett score measures the quality of sputum specimens for microbiology testing.
The highest concentrations of whitlockite appear in the weight bearing area of the femoral head.
If leaves are not harvested, strange seed stalks are sent up by the plants, and the condiment is made from the seeds.
Rotavirus C has been the cause of periodic outbreaks of infection in piglets, children, and adults, resulting in gastroenteritis and death.
Clindamycin, a lincosamide antibiotic, is semisynthetic and derived from lincomycin by 7(S)-chloro-substitution of the 7(R)-hydroxyl group of lincomycin.
Ticks are the reservoir and vector for C burnetii, and cattle, sheep, and goats are the primary sources of infection in humans.
A close correlation exists between the species P. judaica and P. officinalis.
This six-membered ring compound is the oxidized derivative of 1,4-hydroquinone.
A typical audiogram includes independent measurements of the lowest intensity level at which a sound can be heard at a series of frequencies for each ear.
See wasp and bee characteristics to help identify similar insects.
Information from Tietz Clinical Guide to Laboratory Tests, A.Wu, 4th ed, 2006.
Mutations in the SERPING1 gene causes deficiency of the C1 inhibitor (C1Inh) protein which leads to hereditary angioedema (HAE types I and II), a rare, life-threatening disease causing spontaneous edema of the submucosal layers with symptoms of swelling due to leakage of fluid from blood vessels into connective tissue., Missense, frameshift, splicing defects, and large deletion mutations have been identified in families with HAE.
On cleavage by trypsin into two parts that are still connected via an S-S bond, cleaved chymotrypsinogen molecules can activate each other by removing two small peptides in a trans -proteolysis.
Tryptophan is an amino acid needed for normal growth in infants and for nitrogen balance in adults.
It is not one of the proteinogenic amino acids and rather rare in nature.
It may also block the proliferation of T-cells by causing apoptosis.
This may or may not be the same as the date of departure to the travel destination depending on origin, destination, transportation type, departure and/or arrival times.
Often used in stews, soups; roasted, fried, boiled or mashed.
Fenugreek is used both as an herb (the leaves) and as a spice (the seed).
The mallein test is a sensitive and specific clinical test for glanders.
It is located near the center of the retina, within the temporal retinal vascular arcades on the temporal side of the optic nerve.
Parietaria pollen allergens (officinalis, judaica, lusitanica, creatica) are one of the most common causes of pollinosis in areas where the plants grow.
This protein is found to form a complex with MALT1, a protein encoded by another gene known to be translocated in MALT lymphoma.
The priority and diagnosis or reason for admission have some overlap but are not the same.
As it can also catalyze the oxidation of hydroxybutyrate, it is occasionally called hydroxybutyrate dehydrogenase (HBD).
Tetrahydrocannabinol is the main psychoactive substance found in the cannabis plant.
Bile acids are physiological detergents that facilitate excretion, absorption, and transport of fats and sterols in the intestine and liver.
Cockroach may commonly induce symptoms of asthma, allergic rhinitis, allergic conjunctivitis and allergic dermatitis in sensitised individuals.
Kruger criteria are strict and consider minute irregularities as abnormal, while World Health Organization (WHO) criteria are more lenient and do not classify as many sperm as abnormal.
Mutton is regarded as a weak allergen and preparations of lamb meat have been suggested as an alternative to hydrolyzed cow's milk formulas
The giant grouper (Epinephelus lanceolatus), also known as the brindle bass, brown spotted cod, bumblebee grouper and as the Queensland grouper in Australia, is the largest bony fish found in coral reefs
Laboratory confirmation can include the demonstration of reduced beta-glucosidase activity, molecular analysis of the GBA gene, and elevated blood glucopsychosine.
Infection with C. jejuni usually results in enteritis, which is characterised by abdominal pain, diarrhea, fever, and malaise.
In particular, B. xenovorans (previously named Pseudomonas cepacia then B. cepacia and B. fungorum) is renowned for their ability to degrade chlororganic pesticides and polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs).
However you should apply some caution to interpretation of the meaning of polymorphonuclear, because it is possible to consider all granulocytes, including neutrophils, basophils and eosinophils, as "polymorphonuclear cells" due to the variable shape of their nuclei.
Fungi are eukaryotic microorganisms which manifest as yeasts, molds or a combination.
In addition, many other members of the order Rodentia are called Rats: e.g., the Bandicoot Rat, the Wood or Pack Rat, the Rice Rat, the Muskrat, and the Kangaroo Rat.
Protionamide (or prothionamide) is a drug used in the treatment of tuberculosis.
Infrequently, there may be a third present below the terminal ones.
Complement component (3d/Epstein Barr virus) receptor 2, also known as CR2 and CD21, is a protein involved in the complement system.
Creatorrhea is the abnormal excretion of muscle fibers in feces.
The WFS1 gene (Wolfram syndrome 1 (wolframin)) is located on chromosome 4p16.1.
They are resistant to antibiotics that target cell wall synthesis, like penicillin.
Several testing methods are used to detect the rearrangement, including fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH), immunohistochemistry (IHC), and reverse-transcription PCR (RT-PCR).
It is used to treat type 2 diabetes mellitus by increasing insulin production in the pancreas.
In addition, isolates of Citrobacter may be resistant to many other antibiotics as a result of resistance genes.
It is used as a solvent in the pharmaceutical industry, and for resins and cellulose esters.
Human cases are rare, and occur from late spring through early fall.
Studies have also shown that genetically distinct lineages like B/Victoria/2/87 can cocirculate in the population and that the reassortment among these strains plays a role in generating the genetic diversity of influenza B viruses.
It has also been used to alleviate extrapyramidal symptoms induced by phenothiazine derivatives and reserpine.
The next antibody reported for the system was named after the first two antibody producers, ie.
Acyl glycines are produced through the action of glycine N-acyltransferase which is an enzyme that catalyzes the chemical reaction: acyl-CoA + glycine < -- > CoA + N-acylglycine Isobutyrylglycine is identified in large amount in urine of patients with isobutyryl-CoA dehydrogenase deficiency.
It is produced from pyruvate, exists in high levels in plasma, and is involved in the metabolism of sugar and organic acids.
More than 40 plant sterols (or phytosterols) have been identified, but sitosterol, campesterol, and stigmasterol are the most abundant.
Different authors accept between four and 18 species in the genus.
IGH-BCL2 is found in follicular lymphomas (80-90%), diffuse large cell lymphomas (30%), and rarely in other lymphoproliferative disorders.
The expression of GALT is controlled by the actions of the FOXO3 gene.
The NCF2 gene (neutrophil cytosolic factor 2) is located on chromosome 1q25.
Cefteram is an oral, third generation cephalosporin antibiotic that is effective against both gram positive and gram negative bacteria, including Streptococcus pneumoniae, Haemophilus influenzae, and Neisseria gonorrhoeae.
Increased reverse T3 coupled with low T3 indicates sick euthyroid syndrome, not true hypothyroidism.
By complexing with ferritin, the iron is made water soluble.
Myo-inositol is incorporated into phosphoinositides and inositol phosphates, playing an important role as the structural basis for a number of secondary messengers in eukaryotic cells.
Glucose-1-phosphate uridylyltransferase (or UDP-glucose pyrophosphorylase) is an enzyme associated with glycogenesis.
In natural science and signal processing, an artifact is any perceived distortion or other data error caused by the instrument of observation.
This colorless oil has an odor reminiscent of peardrop sweets as well as acetone.
An occupational hazard is one that is specific to the work or work environment of an individual.
It is used in manufacturing biodegradable surfactants and toothpastes as well as in other applications.
Mutations in this gene have been associated with mitochondrial neurogastrointestinal encephalomyopathy.
This gene encodes a phenylalanine-tRNA synthetase (PheRS) localized to the mitochondrion which consists of a single polypeptide chain, unlike the (alpha-beta)2 structure of the prokaryotic and eukaryotic cytoplasmic forms of PheRS.
Chenopodium is a genus of about 150 species of flowering plants, known as Goosefoots.
The mind altering effects of psilocin are highly variable and subjective.
The quantity prescribed and amount dispensed may not always be the same.
Natural (native) Prunus persica (nPru p) 3 is a lipid transfer protein (LTP) isolated from peach skin and pulp.
As a retrovirus, FeLV is transmitted as an RNA virus but the RNA is reverse transcribed into DNA.
After STb binds to sulfatide, it is engulfed by the enterocyte.
China, Korea and Italy are the world's largest producers of Chestnuts.
Antibody testing may detect infections not found through a culture.
Porcine hemagglutinating encephalomyelitis virus (PHEV) is a coronavirus found only in pigs.
Testing for IgE antibodies may be used to help diagnose an allergic disease or the cause of an anaphylactic episode in a patient.
Information from LOINC partner 1 and Jacobs and DeMott Laboratory Test Handbook, 5th edition, DS Jacobs, WR DeMott and DK Oxley, 2001.
The E wave is typically larger than the A wave.
It appears to be an agonist at kappa opioid receptors and an antagonist or partial agonist at mu opioid receptors.
Mutations in this gene have been associated with hemolytic-uremic syndrome (HUS) and chronic hypocomplementemic nephropathy.
Therefore the regulation of Pol III transcription is primarily tied to the regulation cell growth and the cell cycle, thus requiring fewer regulatory proteins than RNA polymerase II.
It grows mostly in riparian zones, from southern Ontario, west to southeast South Dakota, south to Georgia, northern Florida and southwest to central Texas.
It is extremely fatal to pigs under 3 weeks old, with mortality rates decreasing with age.
Abnormally migrating creatine kinase isoenzyme bands are occasionally seen in electrophoresis panels.
Normally they precipitate as the urine cools or after it is refrigerated.
The increased amounts of cortisol binds to the unprotected, unspecific mineralocorticoid receptors and induce sodium and fluid retention, hypokalaemia, high blood pressure and inhibition of the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system.
A thioureylene antithyroid agent that inhibits the formation of thyroid hormones by interfering with the incorporation of iodine into tyrosyl residues of thyroglobulin.
The encoded protein, an alpha subunit in the Gq class, couples a seven-transmembrane domain receptor to activation of phospolipase C-beta.
Stem cell transplantation is used to replace diseased bone marrow, as in leukemia, or as an adjunctive measure for patients undergoing high-dose chemotherapy and/or radiotherapy.
Villous lymphocytes are characterized by polar cytoplasmic projections, or villi, which sometimes cause them to be mistaken for hairy cells (although hairy cell projections are not polar).
Urine zinc levels are measured to evaluate therapy compliance in patients with Wilson's disease.
A deletion in 3 base pair at position 171 of the transaldolase protein results in a mutation that causes the transaldolase deficiency found in erythrocytes and lymphoblasts.
An increase amount of 3-hydroxyvaleric acid can be found in methylmalonic acidemia and propionic acidemia. .
Ara h 1 comprises 12% to 16% of the total protein in Peanut in population studies, sensitisation to Ara h 1 was found in 95% of Peanut-allergic patients from North America, but in fewer Peanut-allergic patients of 3 European populations, varying from 35% to 70%.
One isoform shares a fair amount of homology with a walnut isoform and offers a basis for cross-reactivity of walnut with the Ana o 3 isotope.
Nitric oxide is converted to nitrate (NO3-) and nitrite (NO2-), which are inorganic ions that occur naturally in the soil, water and some foods.
Human exposure to P. shigelloides is likely through contaminated water which has been used for drinking, recreation, or to rinse foods that are eaten without cooking.
The absence of DQ1 in a patient with negative clinical findings is strong evidence against the diagnosis of narcolepsy.
Four species of the Plasmodium protozoa are considered true parasites of humans as they use humans almost exclusively as a natural intermediate host: P. falciparum, P. vivax, P. ovale and P. malariae.
Homocysteine is an amino acid and breakdown product of protein metabolism.
It refers to the amount of base needed to titrate a serum pH back to normal (healthy human-arterial blood pH varies between 7.35 and 7.45) when the contribution of respiratory factors is taken out of the equation.
This grass is native to and widespread in western North America, from Washington State to California and east to Montana.
The conversion of the mould form to the yeast form is identification of Sporothrix schenckii.
Dihydrofolic acid is also known by the name dihydrofolate - more commonly vitamin B9.
They are opportunistic pathogens and can be found in urine, feces, wounds, and other clinical sources.
Cotton has been grown since the time of ancient Egyptian civilisation, and is a widespread crop in the modern world.
Because it is universal among all bacteria, detection of 16S RNA can also be used to estimate bacterial load.
GRA inhibits 11 beta-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase (11 beta OHSD) which in turn inhibits the conversion of active cortisol to inactive cortisone in the kidneys.
C2 deficiencies are by far the common complement deficiencies in causcians.
An HIV tropism assay should be performed whenever the use of a CCR5 antagonist is being considered or a patient has virologic failure on a CCR5 antagonist.
Testing for IgE antibodies may be used to help diagnose an allergic disease or the cause of an anaphylactic episode in a patient.
Negative diopters are required to correct near-sightedness, and positive to correct far-sightedness.
To detect acquired forms of angioedema due to deficency of C-1 esterase inhibitor (C1-INH), a multispecific, protease inhibitor that is present in normal human plasma is measured.
It primarily acts as a B cell co-receptor in conjunction with CD21 and CD81.
About half of all dinoflagellates are photosynthetic, and these make up the largest group of eukaryotic algae aside from the diatoms.
Peak levels are reached in humans at the end of puberty and then decline.
Dill may uncommonly induce symptoms of food allergy in sensitised individuals.
The more severe form of leptospirosis is frequently associated with the icterohaemorrhagiae serotype and is often referred to as Weil's disease.
glucosidases are targeted by alpha-glucosidase inhibitors to control diabetes mellitus type 2.
PCA3 and PSA mRNA are isolated from urine specimens and amplified by transcription mediated amplification (TMA).
The cytokines have some similar actions to the Growth Factors but Growth Factors regulate proliferation of non-immune cells.
The most famous mediator is histamine, which results in the five symptoms of inflammation: heat, swelling, pain, redness and itchiness.
Benzonatate or 2,5,8,11,14,17,20,23,26-nonaoxaoctacosan-28-yl para-butylaminobenzoate is a non-narcotic oral antitussive (cough suppressant) with effects that last from 6 to 8 hours.
Hypersegmented neutrophils are neutrophils with 5 or more nuclear lobes.
An enzyme used primarily to for prostate cancer detection, but largely replaced by PSA.
The encoded protein may be involved in the regulation of glycogen metabolism.
Filoviruses are single stranded negative sense RNA viruses that target primates.
Proinsulin is a protein encoded by the INS gene and a precursor to insulin.
There are four major HEV genotypes (genotypes 1 to 4) that comprise a single serotype.
The measles virus (MeV) is a single-stranded, enveloped RNA virus and a member of the Paramyxoviridae family.
Mutations in this gene are the cause of the autosomal recessive metabolism disorder alkaptonuria.
The disease results from the ingestion food contaminated with enterotoxin-producing C perfringens, usually C perfringens type A. Incubation time is 8-22 hours after ingestion of contaminated food, and symptoms include diarrhea, cramps, and abdominal pain.
A generic term for fats and lipoids, the alcohol-ether-soluble constituents of protoplasm, which are insoluble in water.
This receptor can activate the transcription factor NF-κB, mediate apoptosis, and function as a regulator of inflammation.
Titratable acidity is a measure of the presence of phosphates and organic acids in urine.
These babies, if untreated, usually die within 1 year due to severe, recurrent infections unless they have undergone successful Hematopoietic stem cell transplantation.
Gamma Hydroxybutyrate (4-hydroxybutanoic acid) is both a drug and a naturally occurring substance found in the body.
These mutations were in the forkhead domain of FOXP3, indicating that the mutations may disrupt critical DNA interactions.
The name also is widely, and sometimes confusingly, applied to a variety of other fishes.
BV is caused by an imbalance of naturally occurring bacterial flora and should not be confused with yeast infection (candidiasis), or infection with Trichomonas vaginalis (trichomoniasis), which are not caused by bacteria.
An abnormal or compensatory head posture occurs when the head is deviated out of the normal primary straight head position in order to minimize symptoms due to an ocular or non-ocular problem.
The receptor mediates postsynaptic inhibition in the central nervous system.
Hemoglobin Barts is a relatively common hemoglobin variant consisting of four gamma chains.
It is therefore vital to the infectious cycle of the influenza virus.
The sensitivity threshold is the sensitivity at which the pacemaker begins to sense the patient's inherent cardiac electrical activity.
There are three natural forms of vitamin B6, pyridoxine (also called "pyridoxol") pyridoxamine and pyridoxal.
It cleaves asparagine from N-acetylglucosamines as one of the final steps in the lysosomal breakdown of glycoproteins.
Excessive secrition of uroporphyrin in the urine is associated with uroporphyria, a rare genetic disease characterized by blistering dermatitis, photosensitivity, splenomegaly, and hemolytic anemia.
Benzidine, the trivial name for 4,4'-diaminobiphenyl, is the solid organic compound with the formula (C6H4NH2)2.
This gene encodes a protein localized to the inner mitochondrial membrane and thought to be involved in the biogenesis of the cytochrome c oxidase complex.
Diltiazem is metabolized by and acts as an inhibitor of the CYP3A4 enzyme.
Twenty alpha-amino acids are the subunits which are polymerized to form proteins.
The FGF23 gene (fibroblast growth factor 23) is located on chromosome 12p13.3.
Disturbances in the transmethylation pathway indicated by abnormal SAMe, SAH or their ratio have been reported in many neurodegenerative diseases, such as dementia, depression or Parkinson's disease.
This gene encodes a member of the ClC family of chloride ion channels and ion transporters.
It is most abundant along the flood plains of south-eastern rivers.
It is extremely toxic to humans if it is ingested, inhaled, or absorbed by the skin.
Clostridium septicum causes myonecrosis through the release of exotoxins such as the alpha toxin, lethal toxin, and hemolytic toxin
Sufentanil and alfentanil are metabolized in the liver to norsufentanil by oxidative N-dealkylation by cytochrome P450.
Paper wasps are wasps of the family Vespidae, in the strict sense those belonging to the subfamily Polistinae, but the term is used colloquially to include some members of the subfamilies Vespinae and Stenogastrinae which also make nests out of paper.
Nitrofurans are recognized by FDA as mutagens/carcinogens, and can no longer be used since 1991.
Furthermore, keratin expression is helpful in determining epithelial origin in anaplastic cancers.
NAA is the second-most-concentrated molecule in the brain after the amino acid glutamate.
The Mongolian Gerbil is the species commonly kept as a pet in homes and classrooms, but there are around 90 species of Gerbils and Jirds (Gerbils' relatives in the genus Meriones).
The age at onset of thrombosis is usually between 10-50 years (peak 15-35 years) in heterozygotes.
Defects in this gene are a cause of familial arrhythmogenic right ventricular dysplasia 1.
Human leptospirosis cases due to serovar Topaz have been increasing since 2003.
If arsenic poisoning occurs, signs of intoxication include reduce feed intake and depressed growth.
The soluble form of CD27 (sCD27) is a functional protein directly involved in T-cell activation.
Cerebroside sulfatase measures enzyme activity released per mg protein per hr.
It has an attachment organelle at its tip with protein adhesions which attach to sialoglycoproteins or sialoglycolipid receptors on the tracheal epithelium.
HPV type 52 has been associated with low grade cervical abnormalities, cancer precursors, and anogenital cancers.
This gene encodes menin, a putative tumor suppressor associated with a syndrome known as multiple endocrine neoplasia type 1.
Rotaviruses are non-enveloped, multilayered, icosahedral viruses composed of an outer layer, an inner layer, and a core.
Razupenem is a carbapenem antibiotic currently being tested as having a broad spectrum of activity including strains resistant to other carbapenems.
It inhibits the release of growth hormone (SOMATOTROPIN), and also modulates important physiological functions of the kidney, pancreas, and gastrointestinal tract.
It is also known as the Klebs-Loeffler bacillus, because it was discovered in 1884 by German bacteriologists Edwin Klebs (1834-1912) and Friedrich Loeffler (1852-1915).
Patients with Ph-like ALL have a poor prognosis but respond well to targeted therapy when the genetic cause is identified.
It is supplied as the acetate ester for oral administration and as the enanthate ester for intramuscular injection.
Probably native of the tropics, Sweet Peppers are grown mainly in China; the Dominican Republic, Haiti, Hawaii, Iraq, Japan, Malaya, Mexico, Spain, Hungary and Turkey.
Other mechanisms for measuring Circulating Tumor cells, exist, most internally developed by laboratories and not fully automated.
Oral and I.V. Floxin is not licensed by the FDA for use in children due to the risk of serious reversible and irreversible injury to the musculoskeletal system.
Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) is a gamma herpes virus also known as human herpes 4 and occurs only in humans.
It also can affect reproduction of pigs because it possesses oestrogenic activity.
Norpholedrine is sold in combination with tropicamide under the brand name Paremyd.
PED has a high morbidity and mortality rate in young piglets.
Fetal risk of having 22q11.2 deletion syndrome can be derived from the general population risk as well as prenatal genetic testing of fetal DNA.
Measurement of glucopsychosine may also help in assessing response to enzyme replacement therapy .
The DI is calculated by dividing the channel number of the tumor cell G1 peak by the channel number of the normal (diploid control) G1 peak.
As a result, the electron transport chain is disrupted, meaning that the cell can no longer aerobically produce ATP for energy.
The remainder undergoes different types of oxidation, including N-alkylation, which splits the haloperidol molecule into FBPA and 4-(4-Chlorophenyl)-4-hydroxypiperidine (CPHP).
Although malignant transformation may occur because of changes within the cell, it can be induced by inorganic toxic substances such as cadmium or arsenite and organics such as tobacco-specific nitrosamines.
The shape of the profiles and the position of characteristics along the osmolality axis are created by the ektacytometer and correspond to a number of hematologic disorders.
Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been found for this gene.
The LH response to GnRH test helps to distinguish between primary and secondary hypogonadism.
Porcine circoviruses (PCV) are small nonenveloped DNA viruses in the Circoviridae family that contain a single-stranded circular genome.
Thymus is a huge genus, containing 300 to 400 species, most of which are aromatic shrubs or perennials.
In 95% of T cells, this consists of an alpha (α) chain (TCRA gene) and beta (β) chain (TCRB gene), whereas in 5% of T cells this consists of gamma (γ) chain (TCRG gene) and delta (δ) chain (TCRD gene).
Although the name crayfish should be reserved for members of the genera Cambarus (North America, eastern part) and Astacus (Europe and North America, western part), it is frequently used for other crustaceans and may also refer to spiny lobster (langust, Rf304).
Studies also show that the loss of a specific gene, CTNND2, is associated with severe intellectual disability in some people with this condition.
This will pick up diffusion impairments, for instance in pulmonary fibrosis.
This colorless liquid is polyfunctional, being a secondary amine and a diol.
The provider responsible for a patient's medicine monitoring regimen or therapy.
Mutations in this gene have been associated with autosomal recessive non-syndromic deafness and Usher Syndrome.
Alprazolam binds to specific sites on the GABAA gamma-amino-butyric acid receptor.
Gadus chalcogrammus (Alaska Pollock) is a white flaky fish widely consumed in the United States as fishsticks, frozen filets, breaded and battered fish, and surimi which is imitation crabmeat.
Calciferol or ergocalciferol, also known as Vit D2, is a fat-soluble prohormone.
Pepsin is the principal proteolytic enzyme of vertebrate gastric juice.
Flunisolide (marketed as AeroBid, Nasalide, Nasarel) is a corticosteroid often prescribed as treatment for allergic rhinitis.
However, obstructive disease may be associated with high RV values, which may also be expressed as RV/TLC, which represents RV as a percentage of TLC.
Phendimetrazine is used clinically in the form of phendimetrazine tartrate.
It has sedative and anxiolytic actions like those of other benzodiazepines, and also has anti-parasitic effects against the parasitic worm Schistosoma mansoni.
The name Velvet grass perhaps comes from the appearance its pale purple flower heads make when growing amassed in an open field.
The coxsackie viruses CVA9, CVB1, CVB3, and CVB5 may be involved in the development of childhood diabetes.
However, Factor XIIIa most strongly inhibits lysis of mechanically compacted or retracted plasma clots .
It has a rough succulent, trailing stem and hairy leaves with three to five pointed lobes.
The protein CD86 (Cluster of Differentiation 86) is a molecule which provides a costimulatory signal necessary for T cell activation and survival.
Worldwide enterobiasis appears more common in temperate countries and infections worldwide are more frequent in children and in crowded conditions.
However, this present distribution could be affected by climatic changes and population movements.
It is used primarily as a topical antibiotic and is one of the three constituents of consumer antibiotic Neosporin Ophthalmic Solution.
Patients with HHC2 and HYPOC2 exhibit decreased or increased sensitivity, respectively, to changes in extracellular calcium concentrations.
The INDEL variant PEDv strain has insertions and deletions (INDELs) in the spike (S) gene.
The m stands for meta, meaning the two methyl substituents are at locants 1 and 3 on the aromatic ring.
A broad-spectrum penicillin antibiotic used orally in the treatment of mild to moderate infections by susceptible gram-positive organisms.
Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been described.
St. Louis encephalitis virus is related to Japanese encephalitis virus.
Ingestion of carbofuran can lead to abdominal cramps, diarrhea, headache, nausea, and vomiting.
Used to make maple sugar, maple butter, maple cream and maple candy.
Since at least 1997, CDC has required the detection of both CD3+ and CD4+ to identify T4 helper cells, because the CD3 marker is needed to identify T-cell.
The evidence linking Lp(a) levels and the risk of coronary disease is strongest for middle aged white men.
IBV not only infects the respiratory tract but can also affect the renal and reproductive systems.
Oleandrin is a toxic cardiac glycoside found in oleander (Nerium oleander).
A food, which may result in allergy symptoms in sensitised individuals.
The ninth most abundant element in the earth's crust, is widely distributed and mainly used in the aircraft and chemical industries for its corrosion-resistant properties.
The major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class I (A, B, and C) and II (DP, DM, DOA, DOB, DQ, and DR) in the human leukocyte antigen (HLA) system contains a large number of genes involved in immune system function in humans.
The HBV reverse transcriptase gene is 344 amino acids long and occupies codons 349 to 692 on the viral genome.
Chemoembolization of tumors uses three dimensional cone-beam computed tomography (CBCT) to both block arteries that feed the tumor and deliver chemotherapy agents directly to the tumor.
The point of origin or focus of a morbid process (Dorland's, 26th ed) Web definitions
Ara h 9 is a member of a class of heat stable proteins with strong cross-reactivity among various plant foods (known as lipid transfer proteins).
Authorization for administration of medication away from clinic, yes or no to student self-administration, provider signature and date, parent/guardian authorization: signatures and dates consenting school to give medications, parent/guardian authorization self-administration meds by student, student agreement, school nurse signature.
Transmission of Brachyspira sp can occur in several ways including: pigs that have subclinical infection; infection from birds or feral animals that act as potential reservoirs; reduced immunity in a herd; routine diagnostic and control measures are not adhered to; and environmental changes such as a change in diet, co-infections and other stresses that increase norepinephrine levels in the gut that can result in the growth and colonization of some species of Brachyspira.
It contains 3 baculovirus IAP repeats and a ring finger domain.
Wound botulism occurs when open skin lesions or wounds are infected with C. botulinum that secretes the toxin.
The encoded protein is proteolytically cleaved at the Lys928-Asp929 bond to yield mature alpha and beta polypeptides while the gamma subunits are the product of a distinct gene (GeneID 84572).
There are at least four known subspecies: T. pallidum pallidum, which causes syphilis, T. pallidum pertenue, which causes yaws, T. pallidum carateum, which causes pinta and T. pallidum endemicum, which causes bejel.
It is approved for use in more than 50 countries, and generic versions are available.
Activation of particular VDCCs allows Ca2+ entry into the cell, which, depending on the cell type, results in muscular contraction, excitation of neurons, up-regulation of gene expression, or release of hormones or neurotransmitters.
A blood sample is stimulated with the specific antigen (Mycobacterium avium) and then the level of gamma interferon measured.
They are dispersed worldwide and infect as many as 400 million people each year.
This gene and the gene that encodes ribonuclease, RNase A family, 4 share promoters and 5' exons.
Cyclohexanone is slightly soluble in water (5-10 g/100 mL), but miscible with common organic solvents.
Beta-hexosaminidase is composed of two subunits, alpha and beta, which are encoded by separate genes.
BBS proteins may also be involved in intracellular trafficking via microtubule-related transport.
The London plane, easily recognised by the bark, which exfoliates in large flakes, is renowned as a street tree, particularly in Europe.
Docosahexaenoic acid (DHA), is an omega-3 fatty acid essential for the growth and functional development of the brain in infants and for maintenance of normal brain function in adults.
The role of these factors, and of modifiable lifestyle factors, in affecting methionine metabolism and in determining plasma homocysteine levels is discussed.
Long term use can result in tolerance, dependence, and withdrawal upon dose reduction.
It is a polypeptide chain cross-linked by 32 disulfide bonds.
Nitrates are relatively non-toxic but can become toxic when converted to nitrites either in food or in the digestive tract.
The leaves are found at the base of the stalk, and are dark green, 5 to 40 cm long, 8 to 25 mm wide, and 3-ribbed, with a smooth, wavy texture.
Histamine H1 antagonist with sedative action used as a hypnotic and in allergies.
Chemically, methedrone is closely related to para-methoxymethamphetamine, methylone and mephedrone.
M1 plays a critical role in virus structure and replication by building connections between the viral lipid membrane and ribonucleoprotein (RNP) core.
See Michael Davis, Barbara Rothbaum, Kerry Ressler et al. and their work with PTSD at Emory University 's School of Medicine.
Commonly, when speaking about leukemia, "blast" is used as an abbreviation for lymphoblasts.
The Brinkman index (BI) is a measure of cigarette smoke exposure and is used as a predictor of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) in smokers.
DNase is a exoenzyme excreted from cells that cause the DNA to break now into smaller molecules.
It occurs mainly bound to proteins or polypeptides and is abundant in liver, kidney, pancreas, yeast, and milk.
Estrogen receptors are over-expressed in around 70% of breast cancer cases, referred to as "ER-positive", and can be demonstrated in such tissues using immunohistochemistry.
The chart abstraction flag notes an individual's status to request or review a member chart, but does not address the chart's availability.
The drug also inhibits the metabolism of leukotriene D4 to leukotriene E4.
Fatty acids found in the plasma that are complexed with serum albumin for transport.
It binds to poorly differentiated cells and terminally differentiated cells and is used in cell separation techniques.
A special chemical mixture is added to protect cells during freezing, and they are frozen and stored at temperatures below 80 degrees Celsius until thawed for infusion into the patient.
A virus is an infectious agent that invades cells and hijacks the enzymes and materials of the host cells in order to replicate.
This mutation appears to disrupt the normal assembly or activity of complex I in mitochondria.
Transthyretin is a carrier protein; it transports thyroid hormones in the plasma and cerebrospinal fluid, and also transports retinol (vitamin A) in the plasma.
Methylmalonic acidemia (MMA) and propionic acidemia (PA) are defects of propionate metabolism caused by deficiencies in methylmalonyl-CoA mutase and propionyl-CoA carboxylase, respectively.
Mutations in this gene have been identified in aggressive neuroblastomas.
The impact on the economy is decreased egg production and poor egg quality as well as stunted growth, poor carcass weight and mortality in some chickens.
Endovascular reconstruction of an artery, which may include the removal of atheromatous plaque and/or the endothelial lining as well as simple dilatation.
Changes in absorption spectra of hemoglobin upon binding oxygen is the basis for pulse oximetry, and partly account for its bright red color compared to the purple blue of deoxyhemoglobin due to a higher absorption spectrum (940 nm vs. 660 nm wavelength for oxyhemoglobin).
The KCNN4 (potassium calcium-activated channel subfamily N member 4) gene is located on chromosome 19 at position q13.31.
Wiskott-Aldrich syndrome is a rare, inherited, X-linked, recessive disease characterized by immune dysregulation and microthrombocytopenia, and is caused by mutations in the WAS gene.
Morphine-6-glucuronide (M6G) is a major active metabolite of morphine, and as such is the molecule responsible for much of the pain-relieving effects of morphine (and thus heroin and codeine).
The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the SAC domain-containing protein gene family.
It is not yet known why IgA deposits occur in this chronic disease.
Neurons are typically composed of a cell body, a dendritic tree and an axon.
A metabolite of AMITRIPTYLINE that is also used as an antidepressive agent.
Inherited mutations in BRCA1 and this gene, BRCA2, confer increased lifetime risk of developing breast or ovarian cancer.
The biggest risk factor for acquiring TB is to be infected by the human immunodeficiency virus (HIV).
Each screening test has extracts from various allergens and can be adapted to include locally implicated aero-allergens.
It converts TRYPSINOGEN into its active form TRYPSIN by removing the N-terminal peptide. .
It is found in various natural habitats including in the atmosphere, fruits, sewage, silage, soil, dairy, meat, pickles, sugar, wine, and beer.
Aged samples, if exposed to light, become yellow and later brown.
It is resistant to some beta-lactamases, but is inactivated by extended-spectrum beta-lactamases.
Nicotine alkaloids are also found in the leaves of the coca plant.
In 1985, the US Drug Enforcement Administration moved the drug to Schedule 1 status with no accepted medical use.
Stage I - the eye has already been removed and there is some microscopic spread to the optic nerve.
Distance from the Stomion inferius to the Soft Tissue Menton
The protein encoded by this gene is a bifunctional enzyme that is involved in the peroxisomal beta-oxidation pathway for fatty acids.
Boron is a mineral that is found in food and the environment.
It is part of the normal flora of the skin, mouth, intestinal tract, and vagina, but can cause a variety of infections, including candidiasis, onychomycosis, vulvovaginal candidiasis and thrush.
Symptoms of celiac disease vary with the age of the patient but generally include anemia, fatigue, weight loss, diarrhea, and abdominal pain.
A species of parasitic nematode that is the largest found in the human intestine.
Spermatozoa agglutination refers to motile spermatozoa sticking to each other.
This is the basis for the use of recombinant Carp parvalbumin as a tool for in vitro and in vivo diagnosis of fish allergy.
Clinical expression of EPP typically requires a hypomorphic (low expression) FECH allele (IVS3-48T->C) in trans (on a different chromosome) with the mutation.
Calluna vulgaris, common heather, ling, or simply heather, is the sole species in the genus Calluna in the flowering plant family Ericaceae.
Fenthion is toxic if inhaled, ingested or absorbed through the skin.
The interRAI Contact Assessment (interRAI CA) Screener was created to provide information to support the home care intake process.
The tomato is a plant in the Solanaceae or nightshade family, native to Central and South America.
As in all cyclophyllid cestodes, there is genital pore on the side of the proglottid.
The amebae is acquired by entering through the nasal sinuses, traveling along the olfactory nerve through the skull and into the central nervous system (CNS).
Cyclic Adenosine monophosphate differentiates pseudohypoparathyroidism from hypoparathyroidism and nephrogenic diabetes insipidus from hypothalamic diabetes insipidus.
Therefore, gene mutation analysis by sequencing or other methods is more definitive for diagnosing XLA.
Health problems related to this mold have been documented in humans and animals since the 1930s (and it is even considered a likely candidate for the Biblical condition mistranslated as leprosy, tzaraath).
In water, the half-life of DDT in lakes is 56 days and in rivers is 28 days.
This gene encodes a membrane protein, which is involved in the increase in intracellular calcium concentration that occurs upon cell adhesion to extracellular matrix.
The DNMT3A gene encodes the DNA methyltransferase 3 alpha enzyme involved in establishing DNA methylation patterns during embryogenesis and cellular growth and differentiation.
Campesterol is a phytosterol, meaning it is a steroid derived from plants.
This gene encodes a member of a highly conserved protein family that exists from archaea to vertebrates and plants.
Deficiency of this enzyme may cause globoid cell leukodystrophy (LEUKODYSTROPHY, GLOBOID CELL). .
Decreases in 17KS in Addison's disease, panhypopituitariam, myxedema, and nephrosis.
ANNA-3 binds only the nuclei of indentate neurons, while ANNA-1 and ANNA-2 bind both the nuclei and cytoplasm of all neurons.
Upon binding of thrombopoietin CD110 is dimerized and the JAK family of non-receptor tyrosine kinases, as well as the STAT family, the MAPK family, the adaptor protein Shc and the receptors themselves become tyrosine phosphorylated.
Kanamycin is an aminoglycoside antibiotic that is isolated from the bacterium Streptomyces kanamyceticus.
Resistance or susceptibility has been linked to the presence of certain amino acids at various locations within the normal protein.
Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
The FDA also approved edoxaban for treating deep vein thrombosis and pulmonary embolism in patients who have been treated with a parenteral anticoagulant for 5 to 10 days.
A slow-growing, photochromogenic species that is the etiologic agent of a tuberculosis-like disease in humans and is frequently isolated from human pulmonary secretions or tubercles.
The ABCC8 gene (ATP-binding cassette, sub-family C (CFTR/MRP), member 8) is located on chromosome 11p15.1.
This PTP has been shown to be an essential regulator of T- and B-cell antigen receptor signaling.
Industrially, acetone is a component of antifreeze, industrial solvents, shellac, essintial oils and more.
A small dense LDL fraction, reported as part of LDL Subclasses panel.
The MRPL40 encodes a component of the 39S subunit protein.
Jejunal and ileal villous epithelial cells are infected and destroyed by the virus.
It acts through Hox genes, which ultimately control anterior/posterior patterning in early developmental stages.
The diseased area(s) (also called "lesion") can be described in terms of the specific coronary segments where each lesion starts and ends.
Changes of specific nucleotides in the 23S rRNA inside the large ribosomal unit are the root cause of many instances of bacterial resistance to macrolides.
ABC genes are divided into seven distinct subfamilies (ABC1, MDR/TAP, MRP, ALD, OABP, GCN20, White).
It is often abused so is routinely ordered to detect and monitor usage.
During the natural course of an infection, the HBeAg may be cleared, and antibodies to the 'e' antigen (anti-HBe) will arise immediately afterwards.
Somatostatin also acts as a neurotransmitter in the central and peripheral nervous systems.
Various periodontal disorders can affect the frena, and the location of the affected frena may help guide treatment.
Yellow hornet is sometimes referred to as the aerial yellow jacket.
Mutations in this gene have been associated with autosomal recessive Segawa syndrome.
It works by stopping the body's production of a substance that causes pain, fever, and inflammation.
The protein encoded by this gene catalyzes the isomerization of mannose 6-phosphate to mannose 1-phosphate, which is a precursor to GDP-mannose necessary for the synthesis of dolichol-P-oligosaccharides.
Onions may be grown from seed or very commonly from sets.
Although the Bombay phenotype is extremely rare in most populations, a number of examples have been found in India over the years.
Valine, one of the 20 proteinogenic amino acids, is nutritionally essential.
Automated analyzers can use this property to subclassify reticulocytes into different maturity groups by tagging the intracellular RNA and then measuring the light scatter (fluorescence) of the tagged cells, which is proportional to the RNA content.
The susceptibility of CAPILLARIES, under conditions of increased stress, to leakage.
Alveolar dead space is the volume of alveoli that are ventilated but not perfused (or underperfused), and anatomical dead space is the volume of the respiratory system from the nose and mouth to the level of the distal airways at which gas exchange begins to take place.
An animal model, p63 -/- mice, has been useful in defining the role this protein plays in the development and maintenance of stratified epithelial tissues.
Defects in this gene are a cause of familial amyloidosis Finnish type (FAF).
(or α-) tocopherol is the only form that is recognized to meet human requirements.
Pyruvate dehydrogenase complex (PDC) is a complex of three enzymes that transform pyruvate into acetyl-CoA by a process called pyruvate decarboxylation, also known as the "pyruvate dehydrogenase reaction" because it also involves the oxidation of pyruvate.
Some reports indicate that it is used as a date rape drug and suggest that it may precipitate violent behavior.
Testing for protein levels may be done as part of a routine physical, a pregnancy workup, in cased of a suspected UTI, as part of a hospital admission, or to evaluate kidney function.
Bananas are cultivated for their fruit which bear the same name, and to a lesser extent for the production of fibre and as ornamental plants.
Nitric oxide (NO) is a gaseous molecule produced by certain cell types in an inflammatory response.
It is recorded as having been served in Persia in 400 BC.
Mutations in this gene cause glycogen storage disease type 0 (GSD-0) - a rare type of early childhood fasting hypoglycemia with decreased liver glycogen content.
Baseline ACT and subsequent ACT measurements during and after the procedure help determine the initial heparin dose and titration parameters to achieve a stable level of anticoagulation during surgery, as well as appropriate reversal of anticoagulation after surgery.
It was once believed to be part of the vitamin B complex and was called vitamin B13, but it is now known that it is not a vitamin but is instead manufactured in the body by intestinal flora.
The major progestational steroid secreted primarily by the corpus luteum and the placenta.
Mutations in this gene cause X-linked mental retardation and epilepsy.
It is also found in the nucleus, suggesting that it may have a role in transcription regulation.
Macroamylase is an enzymatically active complex of amylase with IgG or IgA that is too large to be excreted in the urine.
2-Methylpropyl methylphosphonate (VX acid) a metabolite of the chemical warfare nerve agent VX, which is human-made, odorless, and tasteless.
One of its other registered uses is the treatment of hyponatremia (low blood sodium concentration) due to the syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone (SIADH) where fluid restriction alone has been ineffective.
Patients allergic to shrimp typically have allergic reactivity to multiple crustacean species.
The risk for small intestinal cancer and pancreatic cancer is also increased.
This protein is found on thymocytes and mature T cells.
Follow-up indirect fluorescent antibody (IFA) testing is 88-96% specific for Babesia microti infection.
OCT uses low-coherence interferometry to provide very accurate cross-sectional images.
Argatroban is an anticoagulant that is a small molecule direct thrombin inhibitor.
Maltose binding proteins (MBPs) are soluble carrier proteins that, when bound to recombinant proteins, decrease aggregation and increase solubility of those recombinant proteins.
One of the CARBONIC ANHYDRASE INHIBITORS that is sometimes effective against absence seizures.
It is most commonly used as a nasal vasoconstrictor and an appetite depressant.
Several human pathogenic hantavirus subtypes are known worldwide, including Hantaan, Dobrova, Seoul, Puumala, Sin Nombre and Saaremaa.
This enzymatically activated form of vitamin K is a reduced form required for the carboxylation of glutamic acid residues in some blood-clotting proteins.
The primary function of teeth is to tear and chew food, and in some animals, particularly carnivores, for fighting and, or defense.
Evidence has been found that Aβ has multiple non-disease activities.
Carrageenans or carrageenins are a family of linear sulfated polysaccharides which are extracted from red seaweeds.
Coronaviruses cause colds in humans primarily in the winter and early spring seasons.
Mutations in this gene cause the rare autosomal-recessive systemic autoimmune disease termed autoimmune polyendocrinopathy with candidiasis and ectodermal dystrophy (APECED).
Whitlockite can be found at many different sites in the human body, but is particularly concentrated in calcified tissues, such as embryonic and adult bone.
The vertebrate sodium channel is a voltage-gated ion channel essential for the generation and propagation of action potentials, mainly in nerve and muscle.
Interferons (IFNs) are a class of natural proteins produced by the cells of the immune systems of most animals in response to challenges by foreign agents such as viruses, bacteria, parasites and tumor cells.
Nitrobenzene is an organic compound with the chemical formula C6H5NO2.
It is also found in India and parts of Africa.
MDPV may be quantitated in blood, plasma or urine by gas chromatography-mass spectrometry or liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry to confirm a diagnosis of poisoning in hospitalized patients or to provide evidence in a medicolegal death investigation.
The drug is usually administrated either by intramuscular injection (injection into a large muscle) or intravenous infusion (intravenous fluid into a vein).
They are exported from the liver, and are taken up by other tissues, notably brain and skeletal and cardiac muscle.
Increased levels of BCOAs is associated with chronic dysmyelinating changes in the central nervous system (CNS).
Polyprenol found in animal tissues that contains about 20 isoprene residues, the one carrying the alcohol group being saturated.
Rhizopus arrhizus (Fisher) is a fungus of the family Mucoraceae, characterized by sporangiophores that arise from nodes at the point where the rhizoids are formed and by a hemispherical columella.
The Epstein-Barr virus (EBV), also called Human herpesvirus 4 (HHV-4), is a virus of the herpes family (which includes Herpes simplex virus and Cytomegalovirus).
Sunflower seed used as animal food may be an occupational risk for workers processing the material.
Glutaric aciduria type I (GA I) is an autosomal-recessive deficiency of glutaryl-CoA-dehydrogenase and leads to encephalopathic crises resulting in neurological damage.
Mountain juniper is native to southwestern North America and is particularly common in Texas.
Lipids are categorized by the fact that they are soluble in nonpolar solvents (such as ether and chloroform) and are relatively insoluble in water.
Hepatocyte growth factor receptor (HGFR, also known as mesenchymal-epithelial transition (MET or c-MET]) is a transmembrane tyrosine kinase receptor that transduces signals from the extracellular matrix into the cytoplasm by binding to hepatocyte growth factor/HGF ligand.
It is mainly used as a polar aprotic solvent in purification of butadiene.
The work group developed the AO classification nomenclature which includes primary fracture type, neurologic status and modifiers.
EC occupy the mucous layer of the mammalian colon and is the most numerous anaerobe of the intestinal microflora.
The richest sources of heme iron in the diet include lean meat and seafood.
This damage, if left unrepaired, has been proposed to contribute to mutagenicity and cancer promotion.
Mycophenolic acid (MPA) or mycophenolate is an immunosuppressant drug used to prevent rejection after solid-organ transplant as well as graft-vs-host disease prophylaxis after hematopoietic stem cell transplant.
However, the excretion of certain acyl glycines is increased in several inborn errors of metabolism.
The principal alkaloid in opium and the prototype opiate analgesic and narcotic.
Low bicarbonate levels may occur in patients with Addison's disease, chronic diarrhea, diabetic ketoacidosis, and kidney disease.
Abrin is similar to ricin, a toxin that is also found in the seeds of a plant (the castor bean plant).
Iodine may have other physiological functions in the body as well.
Members of the PAX family typically contain a paired box domain and a paired-type homeodomain.
Desacetylrifampin is an active metabolite of rifampin, an antibiotic used to treat various bacterial infections such as Mycobacterium tuberculosis.
Mercury is a naturally occurring metal which has several forms.
The gidA gene is used as a target for the DNA-based diagnosis of respiratory infections caused by Bordetella species, including B. parapertussis and B. bronchiseptica.
Studies have also shown that the core proteins of HIV-1 and HIV-2 display frequent cross-reactivity whereas the envelope proteins are more type-specific.
The reference range for prothrombin time is usually around 12-15 seconds; the normal range for the INR is 0.8-1.2.
Adalimumab is a human monoclonal antibody that binds tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNFα).
Therefore, the more gas that is produced, the less absorption has occurred.
Human parainfluenza viruses (HPIVs) have been recognized as a cause of respiratory tract infections for many decades.
Cefprozil, sometimes spelled cefproxil and sold under the brand name Cefzil, is a cephalosporin antibiotic.
Allergy test for allergens within House Dust from Greer Labs., Inc.
Exposure of people to high levels of xylene for short periods can also cause irritation of the skin, eyes, nose, and throat; difficulty in breathing; problems with the lungs; delayed reaction time; memory difficulties; stomach discomfort; and possibly changes in the liver and kidneys.
Allergen exposure occurs through bites and possibly via fragments in dust.
Other symptoms include fever, headache, feeling tired, facial nerve paralysis, joint pains, and meningitis.
- p-Nitrophenol (1-hydroxy-4-nitrobenzene, CAS number: 100-02-7), yellow crystals (m.p. 114 °C).
Products containing this drug are sold under a wide variety of names including (but not limited to)
Hackberry (C. occidentalis), a tree native to the USA, grows 10-13 m in height.
Propylparaben, the n-propyl ester of p-hydroxybenzoic acid, occurs as a natural substance found in many plants and some insects, although it is manufactured synthetically for use in cosmetics, pharmaceuticals, and foods.
IFRs are found on many other plants including apples, pears, bananas, and mangos.
Mutations in this gene are associated with the autosomal recessive disorders cystic fibrosis and congenital bilateral aplasia of the vas deferens.
It is a degradation product of Dichlorodiphenyltrichloroethane (DDT) that interferes with estrogen and progesterone receptors.
This gene is intronless and encodes a replication-dependent histone that is a member of the histone H3 family.
YY1 may direct histone deacetylases and histone acetyltransferases to a promoter in order to activate or repress the promoter, thus implicating histone modification in the function of YY1.
These patients are mostly middle-aged or older white men with worsening cough, hemoptysis, night sweats, anorexia and weight loss.
Its expression is thought to be restricted to striated muscle.
Absolute exercise intensity is independent of an individual's level of fitness and defined in terms of metabolic equivalents, or METs, which is a unit useful for describing the energy expenditure of a specific activity.
TNFα is a pro-inflammatory cytokine that produces fever, inflammation, tissue destruction, and possibly shock and death.
It is the most widely used local anesthetic in a number of European countries and is available in many countries around the world.
The protein encoded by this gene, liver glycogen synthase, catalyzes the rate-limiting step in the synthesis of glycogen - the transfer of a glucose molecule from UDP-glucose to a terminal branch of the glycogen molecule.
This gene product appears to function as a negative regulator of the ras signal transduction pathway.
Pentobarbital is a short-acting barbiturate that is used as a sedative, a hypnotic and to induce sleep.
Multiple alternatively spliced variants, encoding the same protein, have been identified.
It was used as an acaricide against mites on citrus trees, including deciduous fruit trees.
Krebs von den Lungren 6 (KL-6) is a glycoprotein that is a biomarker for connective tissue disorder-related interstitial lung disease (CTD-ILD).
Silk waste from wild silk has become an important indoor inhalant allergen due to its use for filling bed quilts and pillows.
The disease was first reported among livestock in Kenya around 1915, but the virus was not isolated until 1931.
The genus Echinococcus includes six species of cyclophyllid tapeworms to date, of the family Taeniidae.
This suggests a possible extra-ribosomal function for this gene in erythropoietic differentiation and proliferation, in addition to its ribosomal function.
Strain is calculated as the change in length over a particular time period relative to the original length and is expressed as a percent.
Species are differentiated based on the ability to assimilate and ferment carbon sources, and to utilize nitrate as nitrogen.
Meadow foxtail is a grass species producing pollen, which may induce hayfever, asthma and conjunctivitis in sensitised individuals.
There are different methods used for calculating sRaw from the data gathered during plethysmography, including: 1. sRtot (total specific resistance), which uses the flow measurements at the maximum change in pressure 2. sRaw Vmax, which uses the the measurements at the maximum flow 3. sRaw0.5, which uses the measurements where the flow reaches 0.5 L/s Specifying the method used to calculate sRaw is important for interpreting the results.
Occupational allergy to Papain in exposed workers was described some years ago; workers presented with bronchial asthma, rhinitis or both.
Factor VIII replacement is the foundational treatment for hemophilia A, and the developement of alloantibodies (known as inhibitors) against the replacement factor is the most important complication causing morbidity in hemophilia patients.
The name "peanut agglutinin" originates from its ability to stick together (agglutinate) cells, such as neuramidase-treated erythrocytes, which have glycoproteins or glycolipids on their surface which include the Gal-β(1-3)-GalNAc carbohydrate sequence.
It is also used in biochemical experiments as an inhibitor of reductases.
Recombinant non-glycosylated protein produced in an E. coli strain strain carrying a cloned cDNA encoding Prunus persica allergen Pru p 1.
The initial diagnosis is most often the identification of the parasite in RBCs on a Geimsa-stained thin blood smear.
There will be high prevalence of Bacteroides melaninogenicus in the dental plaque of person with Down's syndrome.
Alternative splicing in this gene results in multiple transcript variants.
Psychosine has been shown to be elevated in Krabbe disease and is used as a biomarker to detect or determine the progression of the disease.
An organophosphate cholinesterase inhibitor that is used as a pesticide.
The aPTT can only detect deficiencies of factors VIII, IX, XI, and XII and only if the deficiency is 20-40% of normal.
These inversions are typically not identified in patients with mild or moderate HA.
Due to their antibiotic resistance and the high mortality rate from their associated diseases Burkholderia mallei and Burkholderia pseudomallei are considered to be potential biological warfare agents, targeting livestock and humans.
The encoded protein is found in the cytoplasm as part of a multiprotein complex, but upon binding of ligand is transported to the nucleus.
CYP3A4 and CYP3A5 cytochrome P450 enzymes are involved in the hepatic metabolism of up to 50% of all clinically used drugs.
Cleavage of the signal peptide produces mature granulin which can be further cleaved into a variety of active, 6 kDa peptides.
A phylum of fungi comprising minute intracellular PARASITES with FUNGAL SPORES of unicellular origin.
A parasitic hemoflagellate of the subgenus Leishmania leishmania that infects man and animals including rodents.
These counts are ordered frequently to guide decisions about anti-retroviral therapy.
This nuclear gene encodes a mitochondrial matrix protein that appears to contribute to peptide chain termination in the mitochondrial translation machinery.
C-C motif chemokine 17 (CCL17) belongs to the family of cytokines, a group of secreted proteins involved in immunoregulatory and inflammatory processes.
Veterinary medicine: Porcine circoviruses (PCV) are small nonenveloped, single stranded, negative sense, circular DNA viruses in the Circoviridae family.
To standardize the capture of a very specific subset of information about the drug/biologic substance described in subsection 2.3.S Drug Substance (Name, Manufacturer) of the ICH CTD - Module 3:Quality.
The total fluoroscopy dose is the total amount of fluoroscopic exposure between the start and end of the procedure measured in milligrays, where one gray is the absorption of one joule of radiation energy by one kilogram of matter.
HLA Bw4 and Bw6 epitopes were the the original HLA B distinctions recognized serologically.
Marbofloxacin is a quinolone, and acts by inhibiting bacterial DNA replication.
Mycobacterium avium subspecies paratuberculosis (MAP) is an obligate pathogenic bacterium in the genus Mycobacterium.
The lack of IDUA enzyme activity leads to the accumulation of GAGs within cells, specifically inside the lysosomes.
Each of these VNTR patterns identifies a unique strain of L. intracellularis, which information is used for epidemiologic analysis such as determining the source of an outbreak, tracking the spread of disease, and monitoring eradication.
Urticaria as a result of contact with Paprika has been documented.
The Obstructive Apnea Hypopnea Index (OAHI) is the average number of obstructive apneas and hypopneas per hour of sleep.
It is increasingly recognized for its role in implant-associated infections, where diagnosis is challenging due to its fastidious nature and slow growth .
The Sunflower is native to Central America but is now grown, mostly for its oilseeds, in many semi-arid regions of the world from Argentina to Canada and from central Africa into the Soviet Union.
Pheniramine is generally sold in combination with other medications, rather than as a stand-alone drug, although some formulations are available containing pheniramine by itself.
M channel currents are inhibited by M1 muscarinic acetylcholine receptors and activated by retigabine, a novel anti-convulsant drug.
Many countries have banned the use of Carbadox in farm animals since it is known to be carcinogenic and is a risk to humans who consume meat containing carbadox residues.
sTfR concentration in blood correlates with the density of transferrin receptors on red blood cells (RBCs) and the number of RBCs with transferrin receptors being expressed, which closely correlates to iron requirements and RBC proliferation.
Six alternatively spliced variants have been found for this gene which encode five proteins with alternate carboxy termini.
In the laboratory, it is occasionally used as a solvent, especially for electrophilic reagents.
A clear, colorless liquid rapidly absorbed from the gastrointestinal tract and distributed throughout the body.
Hydrochlorothiazide (Apo-Hydro ®, Aquazide H ®, Dichlotride ®, Hydrodiuril ®, Microzide ®, Oretic ®), sometimes abbreviated HCT, HCTZ, or HZT is a popular diuretic drug that acts by inhibiting the kidney 's ability to retain water.
Several genes, including vanA, vanB, vanC, vanD, and vanE, contribute to resistance to vancomycin in enterococci.
Therefore licorice should not be given to patients with a known history of hypertension.
Manifestations of CDG are widely variable and can range from severe retardation with dysmorphic physical features, to mild retardation or no detectable symptoms.
This colorless liquid has a characteristic sweet smell (similar to pear drops) like certain glues or nail polish removers, in which it is used.
It is also used to treat episodes of mania, or mixed episodes (symptoms of mania and depression that happen together) in patients with bipolar disorder.
The infectious agent of bubonic plague, it can also cause pneumonic and septicemic plague.
Structure analysis and catalytic properties indicate mitochondrial PheRSs may constitute a class of PheRS distinct from the enzymes found in prokaryotes and in the eukaryotic cytoplasm.
Vesicular stomatitis virus (VSV) is the prototypic member of the Vesiculovirus genera of the Rhabdovirus family.
About 2 percent of people with this condition have an expanded GAA trinucleotide repeat in one copy of the FXN gene and another kind of mutation in the other copy of the gene.
This test has limited value for most people experiencing infertility.
In chemistry, acetone (also known as propanone, dimethyl ketone, 2-propanone, propan-2-one and -ketopropane) is the simplest representative of the ketones.
When ceftazidime binds to the PBPs, it interferes with the activity of transpeptidase enzymes which prevents the formation of peptidoglycan chains.
It is a member of the calcium-dependent lectins (collectins) and synthesized by type II epithelial cells and Clara cells in the lung.
The mean glucose in blood has a direct correlation to the glycated hemoglobin.
Cod livers are processed to make cod liver oil, an important source of Vitamin A, Vitamin D and omega-3 fatty acids (EPA and DHA).
It has also been reported to survive chlorination in municipal water supplies.
Though fuzzy peaches and nectarines are regarded commercially as different fruits, with nectarines often erroneously believed to be a crossbreed between peaches and plums, or a "peach with a plum skin", they belong to the same species as peaches.
TTF-1 staining is often positive in pulmonary adenocarcinomas, large cell carcinomas, small-cell lung carcinomas, neuroendocrine tumors other than small-cell lung carcinomas and extrapulmonary small-cell carcinomas.
It was sold under the trade names Co-Pyronil and Histadyl EC.
To date, only one allergen has been identified in D. microceras.
The C-fragments have a half-life of 5-10 minutes, are cleared by the kidneys, and can accumulate in the circulation during chronic kidney disease.
Garlic can induce symptoms of food allergy in sensitised individuals.
The B little g antigen group is designated as Bennett-Goodspeed antigens and are expressed on mature red blood cells (RBCs) and, like other HLA Class I antigens, are also expressed on platelets and the majority of nucleated cells.
Though the virus is newly described, it has existed for some time and is found in pigs across the world.
It is useful for differentiating neurons (positive for NF) from glia (negative for NF).
This Storage mite of the Glycyphagidae family, also known as Furniture mite, is found in foods and grains in warehouses and other storage areas.
Paecilomyces is a nematophagous fungus which kills (harmful) nematodes by pathogenesis, or causing disease in the nematodes
This gene encodes a homodimeric glycoprotein that hydrolyses the terminal alpha-galactosyl moieties from glycolipids and glycoproteins.
The dose is 5-10 mg/kg and side effects are hypertension followed by hypotension and ventricular ectopy.
However, supplemental carnosine may increase corticosterone levels, which can explain the hyperactivity sometimes seen in high doses.
English Plantain pollen is an important cause of asthma, allergic rhinitis and allergic conjunctivitis, particularly in the temperate regions of North America, Australia and Europe.
Certain protein allergens and chemicals capable of acting as haptens occur at high concentrations in workplace environments.
The HEXA gene is located on chromosome 15q23 and encodes the alpha subunit of beta-hexosaminidase, which is responsible for the degradation of GM2 gangliosides and other molecules containing terminal N-acetyl hexosamines.
It works by being an antagonist to the H1 receptor.
The risk can be determined by prenatal genetic testing of fetal DNA.
A grass species producing pollen, which often induces hayfever, asthma and conjunctivitis in sensitised individuals.
Clotting time of the last step in the coagulation cascade, which is the conversion of fibrinogen into fibrin by thrombin.
In addition to being produced in the hypothalamus, CRH is also synthesized in peripheral tissues, such as T lymphocytes, and is highly expressed in the placenta.
Myeloperoxidase (MPO) is a peroxidase enzyme most abundantly present in neutrophil granulocytes (a subtype of white blood cells).
Regurgitation (also known as backflow) is a heart valve problem where, if a valve doesn't close tightly, blood leaks back into the chambers rather than flowing forward through the heart or into an artery.
Dihydropyrimidine dehydrogenase catalyzes the reduction of thymine to dihydrothymine then dihydropyrimidinase hydrolyzes dihydrothymine to N-carbamyl-b-alanine.
The FBXW7 (F-box and WD repeat domain containing 7) gene is located on chromosome 4 at 4q31.3.
The OVA1™ Test is a qualitative serum test that combines the results of five immunoassays into a single numerical score.
A recently developed neutralizing nanobody has been produced to bind to the B subunits and prevent them from binding to the host cell.
An overdose of insulin will cause hypoglycemic symptoms and may lead to unconsciousness, seizures, and even death.
To definitively diagnose an infection with B. hyodysenteriae, the spirochete must be cultured, isolated and identified using biochemical tests or polymerase chain reaction (PCR) testing.
JWH-073 is an analgesic chemical from the naphthoylindole family that acts as a partial agonist at both the CB1 and CB2 cannabinoid receptors.
Symptoms prompted by exposure to birds primarily involve the respiratory tract and include asthma, rhinitis, conjunctivitis and others.
TRAF2 and TRAF5 can interact with this receptor, and mediate the signal transduction that leads to the activation of NF-kappaB.
Studies suggest that inhalant abusers of methanol products may have significantly elevated methanol and formic acid levels.
Eight exotoxins (A, B, C1, C2, D, E, F and G) have been identified, all of which interfere with neural transmission by blocking the release of acetylcholine, the principal neurotransmitter at the neuromuscular junction.
It is common in most of Africa and some of the West Indian islands.
Oxygen levels assess the adequacy of gas exchange in the lungs, tissue perfusion and ventilatory support.
A wide variety of deoxyribonucleases are known, which differ in their substrate specificities, chemical mechanisms, and biological functions.
The proteins encoded by BBS gene family members are structurally diverse and the similar phenotypes exhibited by mutations in BBS gene family members are likely due to their shared roles in cilia formation and function.
Primary sensitization to Pru av 4 develops through pollinosis and cross-reactivity to Bet v 2, and is not presumed to arise directly from cherry ingestion without previous sensitization to birch or grass profilin.
The protein encoded by this gene is a transcriptional repressor thought to negatively regulate MYC function, and is therefore a potential tumor suppressor.
Symptoms of RRV disease include fever, joint and muscle pain, and lethargy and may last 6 months or longer.
Mutations in the CDKN2A gene are associated with various cancers, including head and neck squamous cell carcinomas (HNSCC), familial atypical multiple mole melanoma (FAMMM) syndrome, breast cancer, lung cancer, and pancreatic cancer.
It encodes the 43-kD TAR DNA-binding protein, which was originally identified as a transcriptional repressor that binds to TAR DNA of human immunodeficiency virus type 1.
Elastases form a subfamily of serine proteases that hydrolyze many proteins in addition to elastin.
White elm pollen can induce asthma, allergic rhinitis and allergic conjunctivitis
The CSF3R (colony stimulating factor 3 receptor) gene is located on chromosome 1 at 1p34.3.
This peroxisomal membrane protein is likely involved in the peroxisomal transport or catabolism of very long chain fatty acids.
Some of the variants produce hematologic abnormalities, others result in no clinical disorders.
Monotypic plasma cells are characteristic of disorders such as leukemia and multiple myeloma.
After a 2006 lawsuit by United Farm Workers of America the EPA will begin phasing out the pesticide over 4 years.
Aclycarnitine is not a single moiety but rather describes all of the esterified carnitines.
Prostaglandin E2 production and circulating levels are drastically suppressed by aspirin and indomethacin.
ESAT-6 has been shown to directly bind to the TLR2 receptor, inhibiting downstream signal transduction.
The L1CAM gene (L1 cell adhesion molecule) is located on chromosome Xq28.
It has been used in the treatment of Mycobacterium avium intracellulare infections, toxoplasmosis, and cryptosporidiosis.
The CTF virus was first isolated from human blood in 1944.
Like other chloroacetic acids and related halocarbons, it is a potentially dangerous alkylating agent.
Isofenphos is a colorless oil and organophosphate that is used to control soil-dwelling insects such as white grubs, cabbage root flies, corn roundworms and wireworms.
The inhibitory receptors distinguish between normal and tumor or infected cells by the presence or absence of the major histocompatibility complex class I.
The drug is typically sprayed on botanical material and smoked, although it can be ingested in liquid or powder form.
For CTX, the cholesterol-to-cholestanol ratio is said to be a better indicator of disease than cholestanol concentration alone.
Aesculus hippocastanum is a large deciduous tree, commonly known as Horse-chestnut or Conker tree.
The spores, dispersed in hot dry weather, contain allergenic proteins with 31 distinct allergens, which can produce respiratory and nasal symptoms in concentration (chronic cough, dyspnea, chest tightness, chronic phlegm, snuffle, snizzle and allergic rhinitis).
The hedgehog proteins include Sonic hedgehog (SHH), which plays a major role in midline patterning and limb development.
The encoded protein acts as a dominant-negative regulator of transcription which is mediated by the retinoic acid receptor.
Mammalian cytochrome c oxidase (COX) catalyzes the transfer of reducing equivalents from cytochrome c to molecular oxygen and pumps protons across the inner mitochondrial membrane.
Measurement of plasma metanephrines is more sensitive (but may be less specific) than measurement of catecholamines for the detection of pheochromocytoma.
Beta subunit gene mutations lead to Sandhoff disease (GM2-gangliosidosis type II).
Groups D, E, F, and G are found only in animals.
Calreticulin is a multifunctional protein that acts as a major Ca(2+)-binding (storage) protein in the lumen of the endoplasmic reticulum.
5-ASA has been in use for over 30 years for the treatment of inflammatory bowel disease (IBD), and has also proven to be highly effective, safe, and well-tolerated for the treatment of mild to moderate ulcerative colitis (UC), proctitis, and arthritis.
A combination of polymerase chain reaction (PCR) assays and indirect immunofluorescence assay (IFA) are used to detect Bartonella quintana and distinguish it from other Bartonella species.
GHBP levels are low in the developing fetus, but increase in the several years after birth to adult levels.
Recombinant non-glycosylated protein produced in an E. coli strain carrying a cloned cDNA encoding Arachis hypogaea allergen Ara h 1, Ara h 2 or Ara h 3.
This gene encodes a member of the interferon regulatory transcription factor (IRF) family.
The ammonium cation is a positively charged polyatomic ion of the chemical formula N H 4 + and a molecular mass of 18.04, resulting from protonation of ammonia (NH3).
Integrin, beta 1 (fibronectin receptor, beta polypeptide, antigen CD29 includes MDF2, MSK12), also known as ITGB1 or CD29, is a human gene.
The exact physiological function of the alkaline phosphatases is not known.
Infected pigs can be asymptomatic and become carriers of S. choleraesius.
It is also a multisystem developmental disorder with variable manifestations, most commonly speech delay and mild craniofacial anomalies.
B cells have CR2 receptors on their surfaces, allowing the complement system to play a role in B-cell activation and maturation complement component receptor-2 (CR2) is the membrane protein on B lymphocytes to which the Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) binds during infection of these cells.
Dividing the flow rate by the peak velocity through the orifice (measured using continuous wave Doppler of the regurgitant jet) provides the effective regurgitant orifice area (EROA).
Anti-Th/To antibodies, a type of antinuclear antibodies (ANA), are present in a small subset (2-5%) of patients with with limited cutaneous systemic sclerosis (lSSc).
An insect, which may cause allergy symptoms in sensitized individuals.
Tryptamine is also the backbone for a group of compounds known collectively as tryptamines.
This gene is a member of Ser/Thr protein kinase family and encodes a phosphorylated protein with protein kinase activity.
It is commonly marketed under the trade name Keflex (Lilly.
It is secreted from corticotropes in the anterior lobe of the pituitary gland in response to a corticotropin-releasing hormone.
Exposure occurs primarily by inhaling dust and other small particles.
Rice is a staple food for almost half the world's population.
Subgroups A and F are usually found in the gastrointestinal tract.
Monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) block an enzyme, monoamine oxidase that breaks down excess tyramine.
Mucin-4 (MUC-4) is a mucin protein encoded by the MUC4 gene and belonging to the Mucin family, a group of high molecular weight, heavily glycosylated proteins (glycoconjugates).
Nadolol is also used for MIGRAINE DISORDERS and for tremor.
It is important for stabilizing the formation of the fibrin polymer (clot) which culminates the coagulation cascade.
Using radiolabeled isotopes, difenacoum (and/or its metabolites) has been shown to be distributed across many organ tissues upon oral ingestion, with the highest concentrations occurring in the liver and pancreas.
Germanium is a chemical element with the symbol Ge and atomic number 32.
They differentiate from B cells upon stimulation by antigen-activated CD4+ lymphocytes (or T lymphocytes).
It works in conjunction with Interleukin 6 to hasten the emergence of blast cell colony-forming cells.
Although relatively infrequent, meat allergy can be a serious problem for children both because it is generally associated with intolerance to other protein sources and because of the suggested role of meat in stimulating the gastrointestinal development during weaning.
A deficiency of factor X, sometimes called Stuart-Prower factor deficiency, may lead to a systemic coagulation disorder.
CCR5 coreceptor antagonists prevent HIV entry into target cells by binding to the CCR5 receptors.
FShunt is an estimate of the fraction of the venous return that bypasses the pulmonary circulation and/or is not oxygenated during passage through the pulmonary capillaries (pc), that is, the ratio between the shunted cardiac output and the total cardiac output: FShunt = (ctO2 - ctO2)/(ctO2 - ctO2) where = pulmonary capillaries, = arterial blood, = mixed venous blood If no mixed venous sample is measured, FShunt is estimated by assuming the arteriovenous difference to be 2.3 mmol/L.
It is formed by an elongation and desaturation of arachidonic acid 20:4 ω-6.
These two subgroups are interchangeable as far as transfusion is concerned, however complications can sometimes arise in rare cases when typing the blood.
People with this condition cannot break down the sugars sucrose and maltose.
Anecdotal evidence suggests that asthma, allergic rhinitis and allergic conjunctivitis are possible following exposure to pollen from this tree.
Outbreaks caused by serogroup X meningococci have also been reported.
The pods, stems, and leaves are covered with fine brown or gray pubescence.
Thus weight will vary depending on the geographical location whereas mass is constant.
Bermuda grass pollen is a very common source of pollinosis throughout the world and is a potent inducer of asthma, allergic rhinitis and allergic conjunctivitis.
The measles virus (MeV) nucleoprotein (N) gene is analyzed for the detection of MeV in clinical specimens.
Legionella pneumophila is a thin, pleomorphic, flagellated Gram-negative bacterium of the genus Legionella.
Chemokine (C-C motif) ligand 18 (CCL18) is a small cytokine belonging to the CC chemokine family that was previously called PARC (pulmonary and activation-regulated chemokine).
Two transcript variants, one protein-coding and the other non-protein-coding, have been found for this gene.
This gene encodes an extracellular protein that plays a crucial role in the cellular organization of the retina.
It has mild hypnotic properties and some local anesthetic action and is used for allergies (including skin eruptions) both parenterally and locally.
Brand names include Depnon, Lantanon, Lerivon, Lumin, Norval, Tolvon, and Tolmin.
In humans, the vasoactive intestinal peptide is encoded by the VIP gene.
Interleukin 1b shares a receptor with Interleukin 1a although they are significantly different structurally.
<2 methylation not detected ≥2 and < 8 low level methylation ≥8 methylation detected
Vibrio is a genus of Gram-negative bacteria associated with gastroenteritis.
If the SAP protein is low, patients develop dysgammaglobulinemia, fulminant mononucleosis following infection with Epstein Barr virus (EBV), and B-cell lymphoma.
Sedentary activity is defined as lying down, sitting, or expending energy between 1.0-1.5 metabolic equivalents (METs).
G6PD deficiency may cause neonatal jaundice, acute hemolysis, or severe chronic non-spherocytic hemolytic anemia.
Abciximab is a platelet aggregation inhibitor mainly used during and after coronary artery procedures like angioplasty to prevent platelets from sticking together and causing thrombus (blood clot) formation within the coronary artery.
IGH-MAF is found in approximately 5% of multiple myeloma (MM) cases.
Allergic manifestations include anaphylactic shock, angioedema (swollen tongue), erythema of face and torso and bronchospasm.
Its function is to cleave off an extra, or precursor, sequence of RNA on tRNA molecules.
Designer androgens also offer the possibility of tissue-specific effects enhancing the beneficial effects of androgens while mitigating the undesirable ones.
The ICRB divides intraocular retinoblastomas into 5 groups, labeled A through E, based on the chances that the eye can be saved using current treatment options.
As a first step of the patient nutrition care process, five categories are evaluated: 1) food and nutrition related history, 2) anthropometric measures, 3) biochemical data, 4) medical tests and procedures, and 5) client history.
A colostomy is a surgical procedure that connects the distal end of the large intestine to the abdominal wall via an opening (stoma) made in the abdominal wall.
Action and Kinetics of chymotrypsin:In vivo, chymotrypsin is a proteolytic enzyme acting in the digestive systems of mammals and other organisms.
The exact mechanism of TID is not known, but it may be related more to the dilatory effect of diffuse subendocardial ischemia compared to the effect of increased end-diastolic pressure.
This gene encodes a 28S subunit protein that belongs to the ribosomal protein S2 family.
This gene encodes a highly glycosylated plasma protein involved in the regulation of the complement cascade.
Toxicity from inhalation produces symptoms mimicking Wilson's disease and Parkinson's disease.
A tea made from the roots is used as a herbal remedy.
The dimensions of health status measured by the health charts are: Physical, Emotional, Daily Activities, Social Activities, Social Support, Pain, and Overall Health.
It acts to decrease the formation and absorptive activity of osteoclasts.
The SERPINA10 gene (serpin peptidase inhibitor, clade A (alpha-1 antiproteinase, antitrypsin), member 10) is located on chromosome 14q32.13.
Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been characterized.
It is a marker of disease burden in patients with Waldenström's macroglobulinemia.
It has been identified in both nosocomial and community-acquired infections.
An MDM2/CEP12 ratio of >= 2 strongly supports a diagnosis of well-differentiated liposarcoma.
Mannitol is also commonly used as a research tool in cell biological studies, usually to control osmolarity.
In total about 20-30 grams of bile acids are secreted into the intestine daily; about 90% of excreted bile acids are reabsorbed (by active transport in the ileum) and recycled.
Research has shown that individuals who have direct contact to pigs are highly likely to develop antibodies to porcine origin antigens, such as avian-like H1N1, human-like H3N2, and the pandemic H1N1 strain of 2009.
A species of gram-negative bacteria causing contagious agalactia of SHEEP and GOATS.
The LE test detects esterase, an enzyme released by white blood cells.
It catalyzes the transient breaking and rejoining of two strands of duplex DNA which allows the strands to pass through one another, thus altering the topology of DNA.
This is the right-hand isomer of methamphetamine bonded to a hydrochloride (HCl) base.
IgE-mediated reactions often present as large local reactions with swelling extending from the sting site.
Less than 10% of liveborn infants with Edwards syndrome live past their first year.
The presence of whitlockite at these different locations has not attracted much attention from biomedical scientists or clinicians, chiefly because whitlockite is not visible with the stains used to routinely examine microscopic sections of healthy or diseased tissue.
When HIV-1 enters a cell it first is changed into an inactive HIV-1 DNA provirus.
Examples in which white pigment, consisting of titanium oxide, is used, are correction fluid and commonly used white paint to repaint walls.
Collect: One 4 mL green (sodium or lithium heparin) or serum separator tube.
Most species are free-living in soil and water, but the major habitat for some is the diseased tissue of warm-blooded hosts.
The compound prevents antibiotic destruction of beta-lactam antibiotics by inhibiting beta-lactamases, thus extending their spectrum activity.
Commercial cultivation was attempted in Europe but was given up because of a fungus disease.
It is unstable in pure form and thus is usually handled as a solution.
It associates with junction proteins and RAS-related protein 1A (Rap1A), which requires the encoded protein for maintaining the integrity of endothelial junctions.
Mutations in this gene are associated with Marfan syndrome, isolated ectopia lentis, autosomal dominant Weill-Marchesani syndrome, MASS syndrome, and Shprintzen-Goldberg craniosynostosis syndrome.
AMPH promotes presynaptic release of the neurotransmitters rather than blocking their re-uptake.
The M204I mutations are associated with Lamivudine, Telbivudine and Tenofovir resistance
The asialoglycoprotein receptors are lectins which bind asialoglycoprotein, glycoproteins from which a sialic acid has been removed to expose galactose residues.
During maturation in the bone marrow, erythrocytes normally expel their nuclei, but in some cases, a small portion of DNA remains.
Fenthion is a yellow to tan, oily liquid that smells like garlic.
Mexican Papayas are oblong and may weigh up to 5 kilos.
Early suggestions were that this type was due to a new allele at the ABO locus, but others suggested an inhibitor gene and finally the possibility of a genetically independent but related gene.
Although much more expensive than ampicillin, it is much more stable.
This intronless gene encodes a transcription factor that is a member of the high mobility group (HMG)-box family of DNA-binding proteins.
The substance is sold as a dietary supplement to people who believe they can benefit from an increased intake.
Lactobacillales or lactic acid bacteria (LAB) are an order of Gram-positive bacteria that are either rod- or coccus-shaped.
M. hyopneumoniae must adhere to the tracheal epithelial cells of swine in order for the disease to become established.
The collagen binding assay measures the ability of VWF to bind to collagen by combining patient plasma with collagen that is adhered to a matrix.
Complement total hemolytic CH50 testing is used to monitor Systemic Lupus Erythematosus (SLE) patients' response to therapy.
Some patients have been successfully treated with a special diets, such as tyrosine and phenylalanine restriction or general protein restriction, which resulted in metabolic correction and rapid catch-up growth.
Mutations in the gene are associated with hypokalemic periodic paralysis, hyperkalemic periodic paralysis, paramyotonia congenita, and potassium-aggravated myotonia.
An alternate explanation for differences in results is the variance in small bowel transit time among tested subjects
Camellia sinensis L. (formerly Thea sinensis) is an evergreen Asiatic shrub of the THEACEAE family.
Gamma-butyrobetaine dioxygenase catalyzes the formation of L-carnitine from gamma-butyrobetaine (G-butyrobetaine).
It is often prescribed for patients with gastroenteritis, medication-induced nausea, and other illnesses.
Hydrogen breath test using glucose or lactulose is performed to diagnose Small Bowel Bacterial Overgrowth Syndrome (SBBOS) or Small Intestinal Bacterial Overgrowth (SIBO).
Expressed on cultured dendritic cells, interdigitating, follicular, and circulating dendritic cells as well as some proliferating lymphocyte of all human cell lines.
E-selectin, also known as CD62E, is a cell adhesion molecule expressed only on endothelial cells activated by cytokines.
The hydroxylation of proline increases the stability of collagen and is critical for maintaining connective tissue.
Species within the Leishmania leishmania subgenus include: L. aethiopica, L. arabica, L. donovani, L. enrietti, L. gerbilli, L. hertigi, L. infantum, L. major, L. mexicana, and L. tropica.
Dextrorphan is an NMDA antagonist and contributes to the abuse liability of dextromethorphan.
In the mid 1980s MDMA was being used at all night dance parties, now referred to as "raves.
It is released by G cells in the stomach and duodenum.
In addition to sdLDL being associated with CVD, it has also been linked to dyslipidemia, diabetes, metabolic syndrome, and chronic kidney disease.
They may come in various forms, such as: sulfur dioxide, potassium bisulfite or potassium, metabisulfite, sodium bisulfite, sodium metabisulfite or sodium sulfite.
Most PSA in the blood is bound to serum proteins.
YopN, YopB, YopD, and LcrV interact with the TTSS to enable host cell entry 2.
Pentachlorophenol has historically been used as a pesticide and wood preservative.
Homocarnosine, a normal metabolite, is the brain-specific dipeptide of gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) and histidine.
Long-term users of AMPH can experience depression, impaired memory and motor skills most likely due to a drop in dopamine transporters and damage to dopaminergic and serotonergic neurons.
Thiosulfates are only stable in neutral or alkaline solutions, but not in acidic solutions, due to decomposition to sulfite and sulfur, the sulfite being expelled as sulfur dioxide: S2 O3 2-(aq) + 2H+(aq) †' SO2 (g) + S(s) + H2 O
Baseline levels should also be performed in infants whose mother consumed caffeine prior to delivery.
The HEXB gene is located on chromosome 5q13.3 and encodes the beta subunit of beta-hexosaminidase, which is responsible for the degradation of GM2 gangliosides and other molecules containing terminal N-acetyl hexosamines.
A positive sign is present when there is pain in the calf or popliteal region with examiner's abrupt dorsiflexion of the patient's foot at the ankle while the knee is flexed to 90 degrees This sign is frequently elicited in clinical practice because of the ease of use, although it is falling into disfavor because of poor reliability and because it is frequently positive in individuals without DVT.
Infection in humans is characterized by rash, high fever and, its hallmark feature, severe arthritis that can persist for years.
Ecarin clotting time (ECT) is a laboratory test used to monitor anticoagulation during treatment with hirudin, an anticoagulant medication which was originally isolated from leech saliva.
Eravacycline is a synthetic tetracycline antibiotic that is structurally similar to tigecycline and inhibits bacterial protein synthesis by binding to the 30S ribosomal subunit.
The active part of these salts is the lithium ion Li+.
α-Pinene is an organic compound of the terpene class, one of two isomers of pinene.
It is a highly specific inhibitor of HIV-1 and HIV-2 proteases.
There are eight gene segments that make up the negative single-stranded RNA of the FLUAV.
It is marketed by Shionogi USA under the trade name Cedax.
Urobilin (additionally and formerly known as urochrome) is a yellow linear tetrapyrrole, resulting from the breakdown of heme, a cyclic tetrapyrrole.
Diverse mammals such as dogs and cats can become infected but usually do not shed cysts (the environmental survival form of the organism) with their feces, thus do not contribute significantly to transmission.
Some investigators have theorized that the widespread use of Amphotericin B empiric antifungal therapy selects for infections with Candida lusitaniae.
1-Naphthol is a metabolite of the insecticide carbaryl and naphthalene.
Mitochondrial ribosomes (mitoribosomes) consist of a small 28S subunit and a large 39S subunit.
The NPHP1 gene (nephronophthisis 1 (juvenile)) is located on chromosome 2q13.
The family Culicidae (stinging mosquitoes), to which Aedes communis belongs, is found almost all over Europe, in North America, Asia and Japan.
Isopropyl methylphosphonate (GB acid) a metabolite of the chemical warfare nerve agent Sarin (aka GB).
Medium-chain acyl-CoA dehydrogenase (MCAD) deficiency is a condition that prevents the body from converting certain fats to energy, particularly during periods without food (fasting).
It was developed by McNeil Pharmaceutical and approved by the FDA in 1980 and sold as the sodium salt, zomepirac sodium, under the brand name Zomax.
Nicardipine hydrochloride (Cardene) is a medication used to treat high blood pressure and angina.
Cauliflower is a cool-season annual, coming in white (the most popular and readily available), lime green and purple varieties.
It was extensively used as an electrical conductor, building material, and component of various alloys.
Synonyms for epiandrosterone are: 3-epiandrosterone; 3β-androsterone; 3β-hydroxyetioallocholan-17-one; 5α-androstan-17-one, 3β-hydroxy-; 5β-androstan-17-one; and 3-β-hydroxyetiollocholan-17-one
Bacillus anthracis is a Gram-positive, facultatively anaerobic, rod-shaped bacterium of the genus Bacillus.
They are believed to act on the GABA receptor GABAA, the activation of which dampens higher neuronal activity.
A species of gram-negative, facultatively anaerobic, rod-shaped bacteria that is extremely pathogenic and causes severe dysentery.
Information from Tietz Clinical Guide to Laboratory Tests, 4th edition, AHB Wu, 2006.
In biochemistry, cholinesterase is a term which refers to one of the two enzymes:Acetylcholinesterase (AChE), also known as RBC cholinesterase, erythrocyte cholinesterase, or (most formally) acetylcholine acetylhydrolase, found primarily in the blood and neural synapses Pseudocholinesterase (BChE or BuChE), also known as plasma cholinesterase, butyrylcholinesterase, or (most formally) acylcholine acylhydrolase, found primarily in the liver Both of these compounds catalyze the hydrolysis of the neurotransmitter acetylcholine into choline and acetic acid, a reaction necessary to allow a cholinergic neuron to return to its resting state after activation.
This variant been linked to increased atherosclerosis risk, including coronary artery disease (CAD), in several individuals.
Androgen regulated genes are critical for the development and maintenance of the male sexual phenotype.
Beverages high in sulfate include select juices, beers, wines, and ciders.
Approximately 20% of patients allergic to these legumes present with severe and systemic symptoms, although isolated cutaneous reactions are most common.
The transmembrane protein localizes to intracellular vesicular membranes including lysosomes, and functions in the late endocytic pathway and in the regulation of lysosomal exocytosis.
Quinine is also a mild antipyretic and analgesic and has been used in common cold preparations for that purpose.
Anti-hUBF and anti-nucleolus-organizing region (NOR) 90 antibodies were originally described as distinct entities but later were recognized as being the same.
The DFNB31 gene (deafness, autosomal recessive 31) is located on chromosome 9q32.
Allergic reactions are rare; however, IgE-mediated reactions have been reported.
The allergen appears to function as a digestive enzyme in the Cockroach.
The distance of the incisal edge of the maxillary central incisor relative to the A line (Line through A point and perpendicular to the Frankfort horizontal plane)
The lymphocyte population consists of T cells (CD4 and CD8 positive ~75%), B cells and NK cells (~25% combined).
It is commonly known as Cockspur (or Cockspur Grass), Common Barnyard Grass, or simply "barnyard grass".
It is also used as an additive in airplane deicing solutions.
Rhinitis and asthma caused by exposure to Beech wood dust in wood workers has also been described.
This test is used in the cardiac operating room where patients are anticoagulated with high (3 to 5 units heparin/mL of blood) levels of unfractionated heparin.
The cetyl ester of myristoleic acid has biological properties as an anti-inflammatory, a pain reliever, and an immune system modulator.
It is synthesized from cholesterol by aldosterone synthase, which is absent in other sections of the adrenal gland.
The SPG11 gene (spastic paraplegia 11 (autosomal recessive)) is located on chromosome 15q14.
Fumonisin B1 (FB1), fumonisin B2 (FB2), and fumonisin B3 (FB3) are mycotoxins produced by Fusarium moniliforme in various grains and have been associated with a number of diseases in both humans and animals.
Phylloquinone is a polycyclic aromatic ketone, based on 2-methyl-1,4-naphthoquinone, with a 3-phytyl substituent.
In the body these are all produced from androgens through enzyme action.
The European Medicines Agency has recommended it be prescribed only for narcolepsy.
6-Mercaptopurine (6-MP) is used in treatment of inflammatory bowel disease.
It is used to treat bacterial infections that are resistant to multiple antimicrobial drugs including streptococcus and methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA).
Ambrosia dumosa, the burro-weed or white bursage, is a common constituent of the creosote-bush scrub community throughout the Mojave desert of California, Nevada, and Utah and the Sonoran Desert of Arizona and northwestern Mexico.
It is still unclear whether Rape pollen is a common cause of allergic symptoms, or whether volatile organic compounds from Rape are more frequently responsible for these symptoms.
In turkeys, the organism is transmitted via eggs and can also spread laterally.
Native to Europe and western Asia, the Hop plant is now cultivated in North and South America, Africa, Asia and Australia.
Tetrazepam (is marketed under the following brand names, Clinoxan, Epsipam, Myolastan, Musaril, Relaxam and Spasmorelax).
Isocitric acid is a protonated form of isocitrate, which is a substrate of the citric acid cycle.
Vedolizumab is a monoclonal antibody used in the treatment of inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) including the subtypes Ulcerative colitis and Crohn's disease.
Common names include milk-vetch (most species), locoweed (in western US, some species) and goat's-thorn (A. gummifer, A. tragacanthus).
Mutations in this gene have been associated with Wilson disease (WD).
Hev b 11 is a class 1 chitinase with an N-terminal chitin-binding domain with homology to hevein
(Information from Freelite Beckman Coulter IMMAGE II package insert, Version 23, Feb 2009)
The protein encoded by this gene is part of a complex of proteins that constitute adherens junctions (AJs).
It has a piercing, disagreeable, acrid smell similar to that of burning fat.
Also, many patients with PsA who initially respond well to TNF inhibitors eventually stop responding.
Tosufloxacin is a broad spectrum fluoroquinolone antibiotic that is used to treat a variety of infections, including skin, respiratory, bone, joint and urinary tract infections.
Primary BAs are produced in the liver by either the classic or alternative pathway.
Prostanozol is an anabolic steroid designer drug which is a prodrug of the 17-demethylated analogue of stanozolol (Winstrol).
Tetrahydrodeoxycortisol (THS) is a mineralocorticoid the main urinary metabolite of 11-deoxycortisol.
The BLR1 / CXCR5 gene is specifically expressed in Burkitt's lymphoma and lymphatic tissues, such as follicles in lymph nodes as well as in spleen.
Pollen from Italian funeral cypress can cause asthma, hayfever and conjunctivitis.
The liquid volume of gas delivered by the gas delivery system, such as an anesthesia gas machine or ventilator, to a single patient during a single procedure.
Transient ischemic dilation (TID) of the left ventricle (LV) is the phenomenon whereby the LV undergoes transient enlargement of the cavity and thinning of the walls as evidenced by cardiac imaging.
The summed rest score (SRS), summed stress score (SSS) and summed difference score (SDS) are variables used to measure cardiac perfusion and ischemia on cardiac SPECT studies.
Thyroxine is peripherally deiodinated to form triiodothyronine which exerts broad stimulatory effects on cell metabolism.
The level of gamma interferon produced provides a measure of sensitization of the cell mediated immune system to the specific stimulus.
This gene encodes a member of the ganglioside-induced differentiation-associated protein family, which may play a role in a signal transduction pathway during neuronal development.
The current treatment for COVID-19 includes the use of anti-viral and immunomodulatory drugs, including tocilizumab.
A through K, group O (outlier), group N (non-M or O), and group P. HIV-2 is divided into subtypes A through E. Occasionally, two viruses of different subtypes can "cross react" and blend their genetic material to create a new hybrid HIV virus.
Mutations in this gene are associated with an X-linked mental retardation (XLMR) syndrome most often accompanied by alpha-thalassemia (ATRX) syndrome.
Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms.
When it is combined with other active components, acetaminophen can be used to treat allergy, cough, colds, flu, and insomnia.
The CERKL gene (ceramide kinase-like) is located on chromosome 2q31.3.
The protein is primarily expressed in the peripheral blood leukocytes.
Mutations in this gene are a cause of Kostmann syndrome, also known as severe congenital neutropenia.
Synthetic antimicrobial related to OXOLINIC ACID and NALIDIXIC ACID and used in URINARY TRACT INFECTIONS.
Pyrazolam is a benzodiazepine derivative which has structural similarities to alprazolam and bromazepam.
In one version of the test, breath samples were collected just before the challenge and then every 30 minutes for 3 hours.
A muscarinic antagonist that has effects in both the central and peripheral nervous systems.
Leptin is used for body mass and energy expenditure, but is also involved as a regulatory molecule in lipid metabolism, hematopoiesis, insulin action, reproductive function, immune function, and angiogenesis.
Many studies have associated the presence or absence of a 287 bp Alu repeat element in this gene with the levels of circulating enzyme or cardiovascular pathophysiologies.
The CYP1A2 c.-2467delT polymorphism is associated with increased activity of the CYP1A2 enzyme.
Prostaglandin D2 is derived mainly from Prostaglandin H2, and is metabolized to Dihydroketo Prostaglandin D2.
Food allergen mix 75 (fx75) contains cow milk, egg white, cod, wheat IgE antibodies.
MPS due to the accumulation of any one or more glycosaminoglycans have many symptoms in common including a chronic or progressive course, multisystem involvement, organomegaly, dysostosis multiplex, abnormal facies, affected hearing, affected vision, affected airway, cardiovascular issues, profound mental retardation, and joint mobility difficulties.
Combination prescription drugs with more than 325 mg of acetaminophen were prohibited by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) to be marketed as of March, 2014.
Deficiency of factor XI causes hemophilia C, an autosomal recessive condition that primarily occurs in the Ashkenazi Jewish population.
Salicylamide is a non-prescription drug with analgesic and antipyretic properties.
Symptoms include stomach cramps, bloating, excess gas production, and diarrhea.
This gene is closely linked with two other apolipoprotein genes on chromosome 11.
This makes ethyl-4-hydroxybenzoate a potential biomarker for the consumption of this food product.
In rheumatoid arthritis with systemic sclerosis (scleroderma) these antibodies may tie two conditions together.
Biopsies of the skin are done in order to remove skin lesions and determine the specific diagnosis.
Besides nutmeg, myristic acid is also found in palm kernel oil, coconut oil, butter fat and is a minor component of many other animal fats.
Testing for IgE antibodies may be used to help diagnose an allergic disease or the cause of an anaphylactic episode in a patient.
T cruzi is visible on thin or thick blood smears during the acute phase of infection.
Cytosine is a pyrimidine base found in DNA and RNA that pairs with guanine.
Longitudinal strains are reduced in patients with myocardial infarctions, correlate with infarct size and ejection fraction, and predict left ventricular remodeling and clinical events.
MYOC encodes the protein myocilin, which is believed to have a role in cytoskeletal function.
Lymphocytic choriomeningitis is caused by an RNA virus now classified as an arenavirus.
Its secretion increases in darkness and decreases during exposure to light.
This is because the cysteine enzyme can no longer act together with other proteases to break up the brain extracellular matrix.
In the unrearranged DNA, the V gene segments are located relatively far away from the C region.
The M204I mutations are associated with Lamivudine, Entecavir, Telbivudine and Tenofovir resistance
The TP73L gene (tumor protein p63) gene is located on chromosome 3q28.
Acyl glycines are produced through the action of glycine N-acyltransferase which is an enzyme that catalyzes the chemical reaction: acyl-CoA + glycine < -- > CoA + N-acylglycine.
High levels of Ureidopropionic acid are found in individuals with beta-ureidopropionase (UP) deficiency.
When calcium binds to the Troponin C it causes conformational changes which lead to dislocation of troponin I and finally tropomyosin leaves the binding site for myosin on actin leading to contraction of muscle.
Some common side effects include: nausea, drowsiness, weakness or tiredness, nightmares, dry mouth, skin more sensitive to sunlight than usual, changes in appetite or weight, constipation, difficulty urinating, frequent urination, and blurred vision, changes in sex drive or ability, and excessive sweating.
At birth, babies homozygous for the hemoglobin E allele do not present symptoms due to HbF (fetal hemoglobin) they still have.
It is dependent on heparin and able to inhibit activated protein C, thrombin, kallikrein, and other SERINE ENDOPEPTIDASES.
Liver cytosol (LC-1) autoantibodies can be detected in patients with autoimmune hepatitis type 2. LC-1 are usually not associated with autoimmune hepatitis type 1, drug-induced hepatitis, or primary biliary cirrhosis.
The sum of the differences between the score at rest and score with stress for each segment is the SDS, which represents the amount of ischemia.
Glucuronidases are glycoside hydrolases that cleave glucuronic acid glycosides (glucuronides).
Fine needle aspiration (FNA) is performed to obtain a patient specimen for cytologic examination.
Oats are by far the most nutritious of the cereal grasses.
The timing for baseline and post-CRH ACTH measurements vary depending on local protocol.
The edible, pea-like seeds are creamy in color with a black hilum (the characteristic black spot).
(Information from: Kumps A, Duez P, Mardens Y. Metabolic, Nutritional, Iatrogenic, and Artifactual Sources of Urinary Organic Acids: A Comprehensive Table.
In humans, CEA family consists of 29 genes, 18 of which are normally expressed.
It is half as potent as meperidine as an analgesic but 2-3 times more potent as a convulsant.
The first 39 amino acids of the Dantu antigen are derived from glycophorin B and residues 40-99 are derived from glycophorin A. Dantu is associated with very weak s antigen, a protease resistant N antigen and either very weak or no U antigen.
The protein catalyzes the exchange of aspartate for glutamate and a proton across the inner mitochondrial membrane, and is stimulated by calcium on the external side of the inner mitochondrial membrane.
Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
β-Glucans (or beta-glucans) are polysaccharides occurring in the bran of cereal grains, the cell wall of baker's yeast, certain types of fungi, and many kinds of mushrooms.
This gene encodes the large alpha subunit, and mutations in this gene have been associated with several epilepsy, convulsion and migraine disorders.
Because of it myosin cannot bind actin in relaxed muscle.
The hospital discharge status or disposition of the patient having a hospitalization associated with the encounter at the emergency department.
Borrelia afzelii, B borgdorferi, and B garinii are spirochetes and known etiological agents of Lyme borreliosis (Lyme disease).
Titanium is a chemical element in the periodic table that has the symbol Ti and atomic number 22.
In Candida auris, the internal transcribed spacer 2 (ITS2) region is located in the ribosomal gene.
Non-progressive motility (NP): all other patterns of motility with an absence of progression, e.g. swimming in small circles, the flagellar force hardly displacing the head, or when only a flagellar beat can be observed.
An acid-base indicator which is colorless in acid solution, but turns pink to red as the solution becomes alkaline.
Scrapie is a fatal, degenerative disease affecting the central nervous system of sheep and goats.
In immunology, the CD45 antigen (CD stands for cluster of differentiation) is a protein which was originally called leukocyte common antigen.
2. The membrane attack complex (MAC), a barrel-like structure spanning a cell's lipid bilayer that mediates complement cytotoxicity, is formed when C8 and C9 bind to C5b-7 that is already associated with a membrane, and is the functional form of C5b-9.
Doxepin is indicated for the short-term (up to 8 days) topical treatment of moderate pruritus in adult patients with eczematous dermatitis.
Anaplasma phagocytophilum is a rickettsial bacterium (formerly known as Ehrlichia phagocytophilum or Ehrlichia equi) that infects white blood cells and causes human granulocytic ehrlichiosis (HGE), also called human granulocytic anaplasmosis (HGA).
The dried exudate is odourless, colorless and tasteless, and often occurs in response to infection.
The following information is included in the action plan: 1.
Infection of M suis can be devastating to pig growers and cause huge economic loss.
The acrylate ion (C H2=CHCOO−) is the ion of acrylic acid.
It was also approved for use in Canada on April 1, 2008.
Metabolites of this transamination reaction include phenylacetate, phenylpyruvate and phenethylamine.
There is also a subsequent down-regulation of other inflammation-producing cytokines and a reduction of the level of chemokines and endothelial adhesion molecules.
CTGF (connective tissue growth factor) is a cysteine-rich, matrix-associated, heparin-binding protein.
Long-lasting or permanent neuropsychiatric symptoms are observed in 10-20% of infected patients.
It produces effects in animals similar to those of THC, a cannabinoid naturally present in cannabis, leading to its use in synthetic cannabis products such as "legal cannabis herbal incense blends" which in some countries are sold legally as "incense", labeled "not for human consumption.
The most common side effects have been described as mild or moderate and include injection site reaction, fatigue, fever, headache, and nausea.
This highly flammable alcohol is colorless and has a slight odor.
The CYP1A2 c.2385G>A polymorphism is associated with decreased activity of the CYP1A2 enzyme.
The protein complex acts as a pump to move protons across the membrane.
This gene belongs to the Ras oncogene family, whose members are related to the transforming genes of mammalian sarcoma retroviruses.
Arterial pulse wave velocity, such as aortic pulse wave velocity (PWV), is a reflection of arterial stiffness, and aortic PWV may be a marker of cardiovascular outcomes in patients with hypertension, diabetes and end-stage renal disease.
It stimulates the cortex of the adrenal gland, resulting in the synthesis of corticosteroids: mainly glucocorticoids, but also mineralcorticoids and, to a lesser extent, androgens.
Capillary samples are more likely to be contaminated by environmental residues present on the skin.
Pistachio may uncommonly cause symptoms of food allergy in sensitised individuals.
Symptoms include anorexia, hair loss, hoof loss followed by liver and kidney damage.
Nucleolar ANA pattern is seen in sera of patients with progressive systemic sclerosis and Sjögren's syndrome.
Borrelia mayonii is the proposed name for a bacterial species found in 2013, causing Lyme disease in six people who live in the upper Midwestern United States.
At this time several developing blood cell lines are available, like erythropoiesis and thrombopoiesis.
Retinoic acid acts by binding to heterodimers of the retinoic acid receptor (RAR) and the retinoid X receptor (RXR), which then bind to retinoic acid response elements (RAREs) in the regulatory regions of direct targets (including Hox genes), thereby activating gene transcription.
Several inherited disorders of GABA metabolism have been identified; these are SSADH deficiency, GABA-T deficiency and homocarnosinosis.
Trenbolone is a steroid used to increase muscle growth and appetite.
They are found on a wide variety of cell types including, T cells, NK cells, fibroblasts and platelets.
Patient's with hairy cell leukemia (HCL), a type of chronic lymphoid leukemia, have excess hairy cells which accumulate in the bone marrow and interfer with the production of white blood cells, red blood cells, and platelets.
AO is Swiss for Arbeitsgemeinschaft für Osteosynthesefragen, which translates to "working group for osteosynthesis issues".
The USH2A gene (Usher syndrome 2A (autosomal recessive, mild)) is located on chromosome 1q41.
Thus valine, a hydrophic amnio acid, replaces glutamic acid, a hydrophilic amino acid, causing hemoglobin to not fold correctly.
Therefore, they will not detect Iodine (I2) in the sample.
Scrapie is a fatal transmissible degenerative disease of the central nervous system occurring naturally in sheep and goats, and the prototype of transmissible spongiform encephalopathies (TSE) or prion diseases.
A positive Homans' sign does not positively diagnose DVT (poor positive predictive value), and a negative Homans' sign does not rule out the DVT diagnosis (poor negative predictive value).
Mutations in this gene are known to be a cause of generalized thyroid hormone resistance (GTHR), a syndrome characterized by goiter and high levels of circulating thyroid hormone (T3-T4), with normal or slightly elevated thyroid stimulating hormone (TSH).
Symptomatic disease is usually self-limiting, and is characterized by fever, chills, abdominal pain, nausea, watery diarrhea, and vomiting.
Methomyl can be fatal due to respiratory failure, respiratory muscle paralysis, severe constriction of the openings to the lungs, or all three.
The latency is the time from nerve stimulation to start of the action potential in a nerve conduction study.
The final hosts are predators - dogs, wolves, foxes, lions.
The genus Parietaria has about 10 species, which are highly cross-reactive to each other.
Villous lymphocytes circulating in the peripheral blood are a characteristic finding in splenic marginal-zone lymphoma, a rare disorder comprising less than 1% of lymphoid neoplasms.
Acyl-CoA dehydrogenases are a class of enzymes that function to catalyze the initial step in each cycle of fatty acid β -oxidation in the mitochondria of cells.
Oxacillin sodium (Bactocill®) is a beta-lactam antibiotic in the penicillin class.
The Mulberries, comprising about 10 species, are monoecious or dioecious trees or shrubs.
An optical isomer of quinine, extracted from the bark of the Cinchona tree and similar plant species.
Chick pea is an important source of proteins, carbohydrates, B-group vitamins and certain minerals, particularly to the populations of developing nations.
C5 plays a central role in both the classical and the alternative pathway of COMPLEMENT ACTIVATION.
It can be used for the diagnosis of hereditary medium-chain acyl-CoA dehydrogenase deficiency.
Cytochrome P450 1A2 (CYP1A2)-mediated drug metabolism is highly variable and often based on a patient's genotype.
since the conidia are non-distoseptate, that is, septate from edge to edge of the conidial wall.
Veterinary Medicine: Cefovecin is an extended-spectrum semi-synthetic cephalosporin used to treat gram negative and gram positive bacterial infections in dogs and cats.
The enzyme is involved in catabolism of cartilage and connective tissue.. (Formerly .
Two different 1 bp deletions (resulting in the same premature stop codon)result in decreased mitochondrial translation, decreased levels of oxidative phosphorylation complexes and encepthalomyopathy.
Eaten as a staple vegetable in Germany from as far back as the 16th century.
Acyl carnitines are essential compounds for the metabolism of fatty acids.
Detection of NSE with antibodies can be used to identify neuronal cells and cells with neuroendocrine differentiation.
As an assessment of sperm motility, 100 spermatozoa are counted and given a grade for progressive motility of 1,2,3,or 4, with 1 being the slowest and 4 the fastest.
SP-D has a function in immunity, host defense and surfactant metabolism.
It helps to maintain blood volume by osmotically pulling water into the blood vessels.
They appear yellowish-brown, are generally cylindrical with sometimes ragged edges.
It occurs on capillary endothelial surfaces, especially in mammary, muscle, and adipose tissue.
In one study, probenecid was shown to more than double a patient's exposure to oseltamivir (trade name Tamiflu), an antiviral drug used to combat influenza.
Its bactericidal action results from inhibition of cell wall synthesis.
Either the Bw4 or the Bw6 epitope is expressed by virtually all HLA-B molecules, whereas Bw4 also is found on a few HLA-A proteins.
Methamphetamine (MA) is a drug of abuse also referred to as meth, crystal and speed.
Deoxyinosine is a nucleoside that is formed when hypoxanthine is attached to a deoxyribose ring (also known as a ribofuranose) via a beta-N9-glycosidic bond.
Along with cathinone, it is found naturally in Catha edulis (khat), and contributes to its overall effects.
The Wiskott-Aldrich syndrome (WAS) family of proteins share similar domain structure, and are involved in transduction of signals from receptors on the cell surface to the actin cytoskeleton.
The volume of fluid used to flush the patient's feeding tube.
IGPDs include Bernard-Soulier syndrome (BSS), velocardiofacial syndrome (VCFS), May-Hegglin anomaly (MHA), Epstein syndrome, and Mediterranean macrothrombocytopenia.
In 2013, the virus was discovered in clinical specimens of pigs with respiratory disease in the United States.
The symptoms, presentation, and prognosis for different CDGs varies widely.
Furosemide (INN) or frusemide (former BAN) is a loop diuretic used in the treatment of congestive heart failure and edema.
Netilmicin is a member of the aminoglycoside family of antibiotics.
It possesses anxiolytic, anticonvulsant, sedative and skeletal muscle relaxant properties.
A genus of the family Chlamydiaceae that causes a variety of diseases in vertebrates including humans, mice, and swine.
Allergy manifestations to Kiwi range from localized oral allergy syndrome (OAS) to life-threatening anaphylaxis.
DMAc is miscible with most other solvents, although it is poorly soluble in aliphatic hydrocarbons.
Vanillic acid (4-hydroxy-3-methoxybenzoic acid) is a benzoic acid derivative used as a flavoring agent.
The protein associates with hamartin in a cytosolic complex, possibly acting as a chaperone for hamartin.
RNA is usually undetectable in serum after 13.2 days, but on rare occasions, has been found in serum beyond 40 days.
Skin contact with silver compounds may also cause mild allergic reactions, such as rash, swelling, and inflammation.
This gene encodes an integral outer mitochondrial membrane protein that blocks the apoptotic death of some cells such as lymphocytes.
Many of the virulence factors identified in Streptococcus pyogenes are also found in SDSE strains.
It is a nucleoside analogue which exhibits low toxicity and good selectivity.
C. annuum (Sweet Pepper), as opposed to C. frutescens (Chili or Cayenne Pepper), is used mainly as a vegetable.
Phosphorylation of tau is regulated by a host of kinases.
Since oats are unsuitable for making bread, they are often served as a porridge made from crushed or rolled oats, oatmeal, and are also baked into cookies (oatcakes) together with wheat flour.
The B subunits bind to glycolipid receptors of the host cells.
Thus, it is used to diagnose and manage heart failure.
Most yersiniosis in humans in the United States is caused by Y. enterocolitica which most commonly manifests as fever, abdominal pain and bloody diarrhea in young children.
Mutations in this gene have been associated with Winchester syndrome and Nodulosis-Arthropathy-Osteolysis (NAO) syndrome.
As with each of the 20 natural amino acids, there are two abbreviations commonly used to designate aspartic acid: Asp (three letter) and D (one letter).
L-Proline is one of the twenty proteinogenic units used in the building blocks of proteins.
It is also a microtubule-associated protein and may play a role in microtubule targeting.
Also, persistently hypotensive, critically ill patients with sepsis, pneumonia, peritonitis, cholangitis, and liver failure can have inappropriately low plasma aldosterone concentrations in relation to elevated plasma renin activity.
It occurs in the biliary passages, liver, and gallbladder during various stages of development.
Bananas are native to tropical southeastern Asia but are widely cultivated in tropical regions.
Cefadroxil is a broad-spectrum antibiotic effective in Gram positive and Gram negative bacterial infections.
It is the largest and most diverse group of waterfowl, and is hunted and bred for its meat, eggs, and feathers.
The incognitus strain of M. fermentans has been identified in necrotizing lesions of multiple organs from AIDS and non-AIDS patients dying of an acute influenza-like disease.
Free thyroxine index (FT4I, FTI) is calculated from total hormone (TT4) and any one of the thyroid hormone uptakes - see LOINCs 3050-2 (Triiodothyronine resin uptake, T3RU), 74794-9 (Thyroid hormone binding ratio, THBR), 74793-1 (Classic T-uptake), and 74795-6 (Total thyroxine binding capacity).
It is concentrated by human phagocytes and is bioactive intracellularly.
Despite the name, the feature that distinguishes these agents from other classes of drugs is their capacity to induce states of altered perception, thought, and feeling that are not experienced otherwise.
When tissues or cells from another individual enter your body carrying such antigenic non-self epitopes, your immune cells react.
Foods and food groups consumption patterns including; type, amount, indices of diet quality, intake of fluids, and breastmilk and infant formula.
Neurological effects have only been observed at high levels of exposure.
Dog dander (e5), however, contains several allergens such as albumin and other serum proteins, and is thus a more sensitive test.
Mutations in PCSK9 result in increased enzyme activity, which leads to increased receptor degradation and decreased availability of receptors to bind and transport lipids into the cell.
Malondialdehyde (MDA) is a reactive and potentially mutagenic organic compound.
Disulfoton is extremely toxic to mammals if it is inhaled, ingested or absorbed through the skin.
These are the erythrocytes shown by Fairley as being associated with Glomerular bleeding
Both the percent of neutrophils having a burst response and the efficacy of that response as reflected by the mean fluorescence intensity (MFI) is measured.
P3NP are released into extracellular fluid and a marker for collagen turnover.
It is commonly found on corn and peanuts and can also infect the seeds of cotton and nut trees.
PTEN protein has multiple functions, including protein phosphatase and lipid phosphatase activity.
Lymphoma cells are sometimes difficult to distinguish from variant lymphocytes by microscopy alone.
Methionine is an essential nonpolar amino acid, and a lipotropic.
A healthy amount of beta-carotene in the bloodstream is approximately 50 to 300 mcg/dL.
Signaling lymphocytic activation molecule (SLAM)-associated protein (SAP) and X-linked inhibitor of apoptosis protein (XIAP) levels are measured for the diagnosis of X-linked lymphoproliferative (XLP) disease and X-linked familial hemophagocytic lymphohistiocytosis (HLH).
The genus Solanum also contains the eggplant and the potato, as well as many poisonous species.
Coccidioidomycosis, also known as Valley Fever, is caused by two species of soil-dwelling fungi, Coccidioides immitis and C. posadasii.
Its primary target cells are T and B cells, macrophage/monocytes, and mast cells.
The NOTCH1 gene (notch 1) is located on chromosome 9q34.3.
Studies are usually performed after screening tests (platelet count, PT, PTT, vWD workup) for bleeding disorders are found normal.
To determine the cause of death, fetal serum or thoracic fluid immunoglobulin levels are measured.
The natural D(-) form is more potent than the L(+) form in producing cardiovascular adrenergic responses.
Co^a is present on the red cells in 99.9 % of most populations, with a slightly lower incidence in Northern Europeans.
S. haemolyticus a difficult pathogen to treat due to its highly antibiotic resistant phenotype and ability to form biofilms.
Catalyzes the decarboxylation of orotidylic acid to yield uridylic acid in the final step of the pyrimidine nucleotide biosynthesis pathway. .
Co-administration of pyridoxine can reduce the incidence of some of the CNS side effects(e.g.
Although 9-Hydroxyrisperidone is a metabolite of risperidone, they have several important differences including serotonin 5-HT2A and dopamine D2 receptor binding, and ability to cross the blood brain barrier (BBB).
A mitosporic Onygenales fungal genus causing HISTOPLASMOSIS in humans and animals.
This protein can form heteromultimers with two other potassium channel proteins, KCNE1 and KCNE3.
Some C. auris strains are resistant to all three major classes of antifungal drugs, which has not been reported before in other species of Candida.
In addition, some people experience only cold-like symptoms and others have no symptoms at all.
Multiple exchanges with shorter dwell times are more effective at removing solutes compared to fewer exchanges with longer dwell times.
The system has three pathways: 1) the classic pathway, 2) the alternative pathway, and 3) the lectin activation pathway.
Symptoms are usually mild but vary from itching and smarting of the lips and mouth to anaphylaxis.
Beta-1 is composed mostly of transferrin, and beta-2 contains beta-lipoprotein.
Aflatoxins, especially B1, are immunotoxic and carcinogenic to animals and humans.
Approximately 10% of known rat bites result in recognized human infections.
During pregnancy and in certain phases of the menstruation cycle, these metabolites are excreted at higher levels.
The following information is included in the action plan: 1.
It has a general narcotic action and also causes irritation of mucous membranes.
The term "Curry" can be very confusing, as its meanings range from the name of several plants to the generic name of a considerable variety of spice mixtures and whole dishes.
The dissemination of these enzymes has caused an increased use of carbapenems for treatment of infections which carries its own risk of furthering resistance.
Banana is the common name used for herbaceous plants in the genus Musa, which because of their size and structure, are often mistaken for trees.
The region adjacent to the telomeric repeats is called the subtelomere, which also contains segments of repetitive stretches of DNA.
NP encodes the enzyme purine nucleoside phosphorylase that, together with adenosine deaminase (ADA), serves a key role in purine catabolism, referred to as the salvage pathway.
Its level in the blood may be tested because if it is elevated this may indicate an abnormality in the liver, though this can be caused by a number of conditions including: congestive heart failure, cholestasis (congestion of the bile ducts), cirrhosis of the liver, necrosis of the liver.
The malformation of the normal prion proteins occurs when they are exposed to the mal-formed version of the protein.
Propranolol is a non-selective beta blocker mainly used in the treatment of hypertension.
Increased coproporphyrin excretion alone lacks specificity and sensitivity for lead testing and is likely to occur secondary to other diseases.
The protein encoded by this gene is the receptor for colony stimulating factor 3, a cytokine that controls the production, differentiation, and function of granulocytes.
This gene encodes a homodimeric transmembrane protein which is a major glycoprotein of the vascular endothelium.
A combination of serological and conventional microbiological studies is used to confirm infection by M. catarrhalis.
Tyrosine is an aromatic amino acid and its urine levels rise in tyrosinemia, TNT (Transient Neonatal Tyrosinemia), cystinosis, hartnup disease, methionine malabsorption, and alkaptonuria.
Propionylcarnitine is a primary marker for Propionic acidemia, Methylmalonic acidemia (mut), Methylmalonic acidemia (Cbl A, B), Methylmalonic aciduria and homocystinuria, and Succinyl-CoA ligase deficiency.
MSI has been most studied in colorectal cancer, and colorectal tumors that are MSI-H are more likely to be carcinomas than adenomas.
Reactivation of latent infection can result in significant disease, particularly for immunosuppressed individuals.
Acetone is also used to make plastic, fibers, drugs, and other chemicals.
Coumaphos is used to treat insects on livestock including cattle grubs, screw-worms, lice, scabies, flies, and ticks.
The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the thiol-specific antioxidant protein family.
Lysyl hydroxylase is a membrane-bound homodimeric protein localized to the cisternae of the endoplasmic reticulum.
In China, a herd of piglets infected with PKoV/AiV-C experienced symptoms including diarrhea, dehydration, and vomiting.
Three distinct types of hemagglutinin exist in human influenza A viruses - H1, H2, H3.
This complex is composed partly of two structural maintenance of chromosomes (SMC) proteins, SMC3 and either SMC1B or the protein encoded by this gene.
Both beta-hexosaminidase alpha and beta subunits are members of family 20 of glycosyl hydrolases.
It is a derivative of coumarin and is generic, so is marketed under many brand names worldwide.
Fenthion is broadly used in tropical fresh waters to fend off mosquitoes.
It is not an opioid but has similar effects without the same degree of respiratory depression and potential for abuse.
The kiwifruit is the edible fruit of a cultivar group of the woody vine Actinidia deliciosa and hybrids between this and other species in the genus Actinidia.
It is effective orally and is marketed in combination with acetylsalicylic acid (Percodan, Endodan, Roxiprin) or paracetamol (Percocet, Endocet, Roxicet, Tylox) for the relief of pain.
The reference electrode location is where the reference electrode for an electroretinogram (ERG) was placed.
An inactive metabolite of PROGESTERONE by reduction at C5, C3, and C20 position.
A grass species producing pollen, which often induces hay fever, asthma and conjunctivitis in sensitized individuals.
Symptoms reported in Rice-allergic individuals include abdominal cramping and similar pain, nausea, vomiting, rhinitis, rhinoconjunctivitis, dyspnoea, asthma, contact urticaria, atopic dermatitis, dermatitis, angioedema and anaphylaxis.
Individuals with PKU tend to excrete large quantities of phenylpyruvate, phenylacetate and phenyllactate, along with phenylalanine, in their urine.
Levels of porphoryins, incluing pemptoporphyrin, in urine, feces, or blood may be performed as part of a work-up to diagnose porphyrias, a group of rare inherited or acquired disorders related to porphyrin metabolism.
The other serotypes may cause mild infections in avian species.
Feeding on a human who carries the bacillus infects the louse.
Bromoform is produced naturally by phytoplankton and seaweeds in the ocean and this is thought to be the predominant source to the environment.
Treatment is most effective when it is initiated before irreversible tissue damage has occurred.
Whitlockite can be found in biological systems and has been implicated in several human diseases.
Gain of chromosome region 1q21 is one of the most common chromosomal aberrations in patients with multiple myeloma (MM).
Understanding which pronoun(s) to use when referring to someone is important for providing affirming health care.
Typically, screening mammography involves two views (craniocaudal and mediolateral oblique views) of each breast.
The ALS2 gene (amyotrophic lateral sclerosis 2) is located on chromosome 2q33.1.
Crucially, this activity is inhibited by hirudin and other direct thrombin inhibitors, but not by heparin.
Estrogens are increased in liver cirrhosis and depressed in Turner's syndrome.
Enrofloxacin is a fluoroquinolone antibiotic sold by the Bayer Corporation under the trade name Baytril®.
The CYP1A2 c.3497G>A polymorphism is associated with decreased activity of the CYP1A2 enzyme.
GLM differs from other TNF-α inhibitors in that it combines with both the transmembrane and soluble forms of TNF-α.
Symbiosis encompasses commensalism (eating at the same table, wherein two organisms co-exist in the same space, and one organism benefits while neither harming nor helping the other), through mutualism (wherein both species benefit from the interaction) to parasitism, wherein one organism, usually physically smaller of the two (the parasite) benefits and the other (the host) is harmed.
Breakage can result in translocation; CHROMOSOME INVERSION; or SEQUENCE DELETION.
The majority of human leptospirosis infections in Brazil are due to L. interrogans serovar Copenhageni.
The enzyme that converts CTP to endogenous CDP-choline (CTP: phosphocholine cytidylyltransferase) is unsaturated at physiological brain CTP levels.
Argininosuccinic acid is a chemical compound that belongs to the class of the amino acids.
The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the transmembrane 4 superfamily, also known as the tetraspanin family.
Biomarker produced by mesothelial cells that can be elevated in patients with mesothelioma.
Cefquinome is also active against many strains of methicillin-resistant staphylococci and enterococci.
With a population of more than 26.56 billion in 2022 (according to the Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO) statistics), there are more chickens in the world than any other bird.
Popular in parts of Europe and a staple throughout much of the Middle East and India, this tiny, lens-shaped, high-protein pulse, said to be the most nutritious of the pulses, has long been used as a meat substitute.
BAs act as signaling molecules and affect macrophage cytokine expression.
Pinus palustris, commonly known as the Longleaf Pine, is a pine native to the southeastern United States, found along the coastal plain from eastern Texas to southeast Virginia extending into northern and central Florida.
Both wasting and vomiting are seen primarily in pigs less than 4 weeks old.
The epitope Der p 1 increases allergenicity by its ability to split both the CD23 IgE receptor found on the membrane of human B cells, and the CD25 subunit of the T-cell IL-2 receptor.
PCA3 and PSA mRNAs are quantified and the PCA3 Score is determined (PCA3 Score = / x1000).
It occurs as a sodium salt in the bile of mammals.
Patients with symptoms of such disorders, especially those with known risk factors for cancer, will undergo testing for paraneoplastic antibodies, including PCA-2.
Obstructive apnea is the repeated collapsing of the upper airway which may lead to reduced oxygen saturation levels and sleep disruptions.
Whole-genome sequencing (WGS) is analysis of a patient's entire genome to detect and identify genomic variants, such as single nucleotide variants (SNVs), small DNA insertions or deletions (indels), copy number variants (CNVs), or other structural variants (SVs).
A nonconventional nuclear localization sequence (NLS) has been found for this protein which suggests a role in DNA replication via the protein serving as a nuclear transport protein for the second subunit of the Replication Factor C (RFC40).
It is made up of one globin polypeptide chain and one heme group.
The panel is used to assess T cell function in patients having immunosuppressive therapy and to evaluate patients with cellular or humoral immunodeficiency diseases, which include SCID (Severe Combined Immunodeficiency), CVID (Common Variable Immunodeficiency), and DiGeorge syndrome.
The CLN5 gene (ceroid-lipofuscinosis, neuronal 5) is located on chromosome 13q22.3.
A potent androgenic steroid and major product secreted by the Leydig cells of the testis.
Distance from hard tissue A point to soft tissue A point
The protein is a prominent component of the first line of mammalian host defence, and its expression is up-regulated in response to inflammatory stimuli.
It is the causative agent of Johne's disease, which affects ruminants such as cattle, and also perhaps the human disease Crohn's disease.
Protein tyrosine phosphatase, non-receptor type 22 (lymphoid), also known as PTPN22, is a protein that in humans is encoded by the PTPN22 gene.
Images included with each term display the charts and indicate in color (red, green, yellow) the usual score "cutoffs" in clinical settings.
This results in mildly decreased plasma and urine concentrations and normal CSF concentration of beta alanine, and moderately decreased CSF concentration and markedly decreased plasma concentration of BAIB.
Thus, the amount of free propeptides directly correlates with collagen molecule synthesis.
Grapefruit is one of the three principle members of the citrus family.
Diagnostic mammography is performed when a woman presents with breast changes (e.g. lumps, pain, nipple discharge, etc) or when an abnormality is detected on a screening mammogram.
A major C19 steroid produced by the adrenal cortex, dehydroepiandrosterone (DHEA) is also produced in small quantities in the testis and the ovary.
Loss of the PTEN gene can be determined by various techniques, including FISH, and loss of the PTEN protein can be detected by immunohistochemistry techniques.
Ganglioside antibodies against different gangliosides have been associated with different conditions.
AT-hook transcription factor AKNA is reported to coordinately regulate the expression of this receptor and its ligand, which may be important for homotypic cell interactions.
It is a structural isomer of isotonitazene, another potent synthetic opioid.
They have an estimated 75% protein to rRNA composition compared to prokaryotic ribosomes, where this ratio is reversed.
Dihydrocodeine, also called DHC, Drocode or DF-118, is a synthetic opioid analgesic prescribed for postoperative pain, severe dyspnea, or as an antitussive.
By replacing sedentary activity with increased bouts of moderate to vigorous activity, one can counteract the negative impacts of sedentary activity.
Zic4 antibodies often occur concurrently with Hu and CRMP5 antibodies.
EMVI is when tumor cells are present in veins outside the bowel wall.
Androstenedione is a delta-4 C19 steroid produced in the testis, ovary and adrenal cortex.
JA Chapman and S. Williams reported 7.3% of the atopic patients being hypersensitive to Curvularia.
It belongs to the large class of tyrosine kinase receptors.
Cysteine is an important source of sulfur in human metabolism, and although it is classified as a non-essential amino acid, cysteine may be essential for infants, the elderly, and individuals with metabolic disease or who suffer from malabsorption syndromes.
Direct or indirect contact with animal allergens frequently causes sensitisation.
It is this transretinal current that depolarizes the radially oriented Muller cells and generates the corneal-positive deflection.
Alternately, AS is caused by deletion or inactivation of genes on the maternally inherited chromosome 15 while the paternal copy, which may be of normal sequence, is imprinted and therefore silenced.
The PCR does not detect C. concisus, C. curvus, C. gracilis, C. hominis, C. rectus, C. showae, C. fetus, C. mucosalis, C. sputorum, and C. ureolyticus.
It has both 17alpha-hydroxylase and 17,20-lyase activities and is a key enzyme in the steroidogenic pathway that produces progestins, mineralocorticoids, glucocorticoids, androgens, and estrogens.
Exotoxin A (toxA) is one of its primary virulence factors, and the presence of RegA, a protein encoded by the regA gene, is essential for P aeruginosa toxA expression.
It has powerful sedative, anxiolytic, and skeletal muscle relaxant properties.
Alternative splicing of this gene results in two transcript variants encoding different isoforms.
The Dantu phenotype occurs with a frequency of about 0.005 in American Blacks and less than 0.001 in Germans.
It is used to evaluate specific IgE reactivity in patients with suspected cherry allergy.
Transfusion band number is unique to Blood Bank; not attached to hospital ID
Prion diseases of animals in include classical bovine spongiform encephalopathy (BSE) (C-type), atypical (H or L-type) BSE, Scrapie, atypical scrapie, Nor98, and chronic wasting disease (CWE).
A glycoprotein central in both the classical and alternate pathways of complement systems.
In animal feed, the toxic dietary concentration is 10-100 times greater than normal feed concentrations.
Three transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
Because there is a second hydrogen atom at the Î± carbon, glycine is not optically active.
NPC disease is a rare genetic disorder that results in the accumulation of cholesterol and other lipids internally.
The GLRA1 gene (glycine receptor, alpha 1) is located on chromosome 5q32.
O. It is used for the short-term treatment of insomnia and as a sedative before minor medical or dental treatment.
EBV becomes dormant post infection but occasionally will reactivate especially in immunosuppressed patients.
The 14-3-3 proteins eluted in the 14th fraction of bovine brain homogenate and were found on positions 3.3 of subsequent electrophoresis by Moore and Perez.
The anterior-inferior angle formed by the Frankfort Horizontal line and the Mandibular line (Gonion-Menton)
Defects in this gene are associated with mitochondrial long-chain fatty-acid (LCFA) oxidation disorders.
The HGFR can be overexpressed in epithelial cancers, such as lung cancer.
The gap junction proteins are membrane-spanning proteins that assemble to form gap junction channels that facilitate the transfer of ions and small molecules between cells.
Up to half of healthy pigs may harbor E. rhusiopathiae in tonsils and lymphatic tissue.
An association between LD1 and testicular seminoma has also been recognized.
The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the dual specificity protein kinase family, which acts as a mitogen-activated protein (MAP) kinase kinase.
For example, both cell types store histamine, a chemical that is secreted by the cells when stimulated in certain ways (histamine causes some of the symptoms of an allergic reaction).
Chemically, propofol is not related to barbiturates and has largely replaced sodium thiopental (Pentothal) for induction of anesthesia because recovery from propofol is more rapid and "clear" when compared with thiopental.
It is required for muscle cell differentiation and mutations in this gene have been identified as being responsible for X-linked myotubular myopathy.
The gene encoding this enzyme functions as the target for several anticancer agents and a variety of mutations in this gene have been associated with the development of drug resistance.
The protein encoded by this gene is a dimethyltransferase that methylates the conserved stem loop of mitochondrial 12S rRNA.
The protein encoded by this gene is a transmembrane (type I) heparan sulfate proteoglycan and is a member of the syndecan proteoglycan family.
They may also be seen in inflammations, such as acute allergic interstitial nephritis or post-streptococcal acute glomerulonephritis.
Polybrominated biphenyls (PBBs), also called brominated biphenyls or polybromobiphenyls, are a group of manufactured chemicals, of the polyhalogenated compounds.
Two vaccines are available, one a live attenuated version of the Neethling virus, the other a live attenuated version of the sheeppox virus.
These bulbs are very easy to set out and grow into mature bulbs the following year, but they have the reputation of producing a less durable bulb than onions grown directly from seed and thinned.
Tricyclic antidepressant similar in action and side effects to IMIPRAMINE.
More mercury in the environment can increase the amounts of methylmercury that these small organisms make.
Cytochrome b is comprised of a light chain (alpha) and a heavy chain (beta).
Mutations in this gene have been associated with a form of mitochondrial respiratory chain deficiency known as Leigh Syndrome.
The body uses amino acids to make proteins to help the body: break down food, grow, repair body tissue, and perform many other body functions.
Rare mutations leading to increased function of CETP have been linked to accelerated atherosclerosis.
Lactate is constantly produced during normal metabolism and exercise but does not increase in concentration until the rate of lactate production exceeds the rate of lactate removal.
The labeled DNA probes combine with amplicon to form stable RNA:DNA hybrids.
B. garinii, the most neurotropic of these three genospecies, causes most neurologic Lyme disease in Europe, including cases of meningopolyneuritis and, rarely, encephalomyelitis.
Codon 154 codes for either arginine ® or histidine (H).
One mold species may produce many different mycotoxins and/or the same mycotoxin as another species.
This protein undergoes a continuous cycle of de- and re-palmitoylation, which regulates its rapid exchange between the plasma membrane and the Golgi apparatus.
C krusei is also the cause of infection due to invasive medical procedures performed on immunocompromised patients that can cause endophthalmitis, arthritis, and endocarditis.
Mutations in this gene have also been associated with a reduction in Plasmodium falciparum rosetting, conferring protection against severe malaria.
A spice mixture, which may result in allergy symptoms in sensitised individuals.
Binding PD-L1 and PD-L2 to the PD-1 receptor found on T-cells inhibits T cell proliferation and cytokine production.
Butyrylcarnitine+Isobutyrylcarnitine is a primary marker for Short-chain acyl-CoA dehydrogenase deficiency, Glutaric acidemia type II and Isobutyrylglycinuria, Ethylmalonic encephalopathy.
Because MPS is so rare and the symptoms so variable, it is difficult to diagnose in its earliest stages.
Symptoms of the acute illness include liver inflammation, vomiting, jaundice, and rarely, death.
Cabbage can occasionally induce symptoms of food allergy in sensitised individuals.
IGF2 may also bind to the IGF-2 receptor (also called the cation-independent mannose 6-phosphate receptor), which acts to prevent IGF2 responses.
Molecular techniques, including multiplex PCR and Y-chromosome locus-specific probes, may used to detect small non-overlapping interstitial deletions within the AZFa, AZFb, and AZFc regions.
Elevated levels of VEGF-A is linked to POEMS syndrome, also known as Crow-Fukase syndrome.
The SARS coronavirus is the virus that causes severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS).
False Oat grass is native to Europe and was brought to the United States early in the last century.
Race may also play a role, as African-Americans routinely register higher blood cotinine levels than Caucasians.
Abnormalities of myocardial deformation can be seen early in the development of mycardial pathophysiologic states, including ischemia.
The main active metabolite of Venlafaxine, a drug that is a selective inhibitor of both norepinephrine and serotonin reuptake indicated for manic depression and/or obsessive compulsive disorder.
The Nutmeg tree is a large evergreen native to the Spice Islands but now also cultivated in the Caribbean and Mauritius.
Mivacurium chloride (formerly recognized as BW1090U81, BW B1090U or BW1090U) is a neuromuscular-blocking drug or skeletal muscle relaxant in the category of non-depolarizing neuromuscular-blocking drugs, used adjunctively in anesthesia to facilitate endotracheal intubation and to provide skeletal muscle relaxation during surgery or mechanical ventilation.
A cyclic polypeptide antibiotic complex from Streptomyces virginiae, S. loidensis, S. mitakaensis, S. pristina-spiralis, S. ostreogriseus, and others.
Trimeperidine produces similar effects to other opioids, such as analgesia and sedation, along with side effects such as nausea, itching, vomiting and respiratory depression which may be harmful or fatal.
A metabolite of fluorocitrate binds very tightly to aconitase, thereby halting the citric acid cycle.
Coxsackieviruses are divided into group A and group B viruses based on early observations of their pathogenicity in mice.
16-Ketoandrostenediol is a natural hormone with androgenic activity and that two potent antiandrogens: hydroxyflutamide (Eulexin) and bicalutamide (Casodex).
Robinia pseudoacacia, commonly known as the Black Locust, is a tree in the subfamily Faboideae of the pea family Fabaceae.
They are: C6 caproic acid, C8 caprylic acid, C10 capric acid, and C12 lauric acid.
Oriental cockroach is thought to be from Africa or south Russia but has colonised much of the world and become a major household pest in parts of America.
Surfactant is a naturally occurring substance made of six lipids and four proteins that is produced in the lungs.
Ristocetin is an antibiotic, obtained from Nocardia lurida, previously used to treat staphylococcal infections.
Ammonia levels may also be measured to evaluate the effectiveness of treatment of hepatic encephalopathy.
7-Hydroxychlorpromazine is one of the major metabolites of chlorpromazine, an antipsychotic medication used to treat schizophrenia.
Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
Food allergen mix 71 (fx70, FP70) detects caraway (f265), cardamon (f267), mace (f266), and clove (f268) IgE antibodies.
Minocycline has a high incidence of adverse events associated with its use causing symptoms including nausea, vomiting, and drug-hypersensitivity syndrome.
In physics, however, it is more specifically defined as the force due to gravity.
Defects in the enzyme alpha-galactosidase lead to the build up of globotriaosylceramide, and this is the cause of Fabry's disease.
The mechanisms of its antimalarial effects are not well understood.
Epiandrosterone can also be converted from the natural steroids androstanediol via 17β-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase or from androstanedione via 3β-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase.
Examples of foods rich in bioactive compounds are fruits, vegetables, whole grains, legumes, and nuts.
The dissemination of these enzymes has caused an increased use of carbapenems for treatment of infections which carries its own risk of furthering resistance.
Mixed cellular casts are casts that contain multiple types of cells.
A cytosolic ribonucleoprotein complex that acts to induce elongation arrest of nascent presecretory and membrane proteins until the ribosome becomes associated with the rough endoplasmic reticulum.
Parasitic worms or helminths are a division of eukaryotic parasites that, unlike external parasites such as lice and fleas, live inside their host.
The expression of different isoforms and splice variants is regulated in a developmental, tissue- and cell type-specific manner, suggesting that these pumps are functionally adapted to the physiological needs of particular cells and tissues.
The disease is highly contagious and is spread through the feces of infected dogs, who usually shed the virus for six to nine days, but sometimes for six months following infection.
Mutations in the Tg gene cause thyroid dyshormonogenesis resulting in goiter, and can be associated with moderate to severe congenital hypothyroidism.
The PRRSV genome contains approximately 15,400 nucleotides and is divided into two genotypes, North American (type 2, with prototype isolate VR2332) and European (type 1, with prototype isolate "Lelystad" isolate).
PCP can be found 7 days following use and up to 2-4 weeks later in chronic users.
Antibodies to phase I antigens of C. burnetii generally require longer to appear and indicate continued exposure to the bacteria.
Vitamin A, a group of fat-soluble retinoids, including retinol, retinal, and retinyl esters, is involved in immune function, vision, reproduction, and cellular communication.
Stage IV - the tumor has spread to distant areas of the body outside the eye, via the lymphatic system and blood vessels.
In 1985, the US Drug Enforcement Administration moved the drug to Schedule 1 status with no accepted medical use.
In 1973 a new antigen was reported that occurred in 5% of Indians from Bombay.
All of these have a hard, smooth rind, sometimes lightly ribbed, covering edible flesh and the central seed cavity.
It does not increase in concentration until the rate of lactate production exceeds the rate of lactate removal, which is governed by a number of factors, including monocarboxylate transporters, concentration and isoform of LDH, and oxidative capacity of tissues.
Alpha-1-acid glycoprotein (AGP or orosomucoid ORM), is an acute phase reactant glycoprotein found in a number of conditions, and considered a natural anti-inflammatory and immunomodulatory agent, particularly with respect to its anti-neutrophil and anti-complement activity.
In these regions, the waxy coating of the seeds is used for candle and soap making, and the leaves are used as herbal medicine to treat boils.
The growth rate of Trichophyton colonies is slow to moderately rapid.
CD3 is a marker found on all functional T cells, while CD5 is a cluster of differentiation antigen found on most T cells and a subset of IgM secreting B cells.
It is also helpful for contact lens fitting and detecting irregular astigmatism.
Alternatively spliced variants which encode different protein isoforms have been described; however, not all variants have been fully characterized.
Levels of GGT are also increased in chronic and acute alcohol abuse.
It is native to temperate Europe, Asia and northern Africa, but is also present in North America where it is an invasive weed.
In the kidneys, the free light chains are selectively reabsorbed by the tubular cells, so their presence in urine is likely due to secretion into the urinary tract.
A benzodiazepine that is used in the treatment of anxiety disorders.
These occur primarilly in baked goods such as french fries, potato chips, and roasted coffee.
The significance of the disease in chickens and turkeys is its impact on chicken and turkey flock populations as it can cause death when a secondary infection is present.
Cefepime hydrochloride was first introduced in 1994 and is currently marketed under various trade names including Maxipime (Elan Pharma, Maxcef, Cepimax, Cepimex, and Axepim).
Succinate dehydrogenase (SDH) is a mitochondrial enzyme complex made up of 4 subunits: subunit A (SDHA), subunit B (SDHB), subunit C (SDHC), and subunit D (SDHD).
This gene encodes a protein that contains several helicase family domains.
A species of the PESTIVIRUS genus causing exceedingly contagious and fatal hemorrhagic disease of swine.
According to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), no flu, seasonal or pandemic, has shown any signs of resistance to zanamivir.
Since the PT promoter region is present in other Bordetella species, including B. parapertussis, generic primers may be used for rapid detection and differentiation of the species.
Measurement of HMWK is usually done with mixing studies, where plasma deficient in HMWK is mixed with the patient's sample and the PTT determined.
Sensitivity to honey bee venom is estimated to be 15-25% of the population and higher for people living in rural areas..
Amphetamine (AMPH) is a drug that stimulates both the central and peripheral nervous systems and is used to treat attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder, narcolepsy and obesity.
In addition it is sometimes used for chronic pain modification.
Beginning in infancy to early childhood, patients with 3-methylglutaconyl-CoA hydratase deficiency have symptoms of developmental delay, dystonia, and spastic quadriparesis.
In males, LH has been called interstitial cell stimulating hormone (ICSH) because of its effect on testosterone production by Leydig cells.
Alanine is one of the primary amino acids (secondary to leucine) used for protein construction.
Normal alleles have 11-26 CCTG repeats, intermediate (premutation) alleles have 27-74 repeats, and mutated alleles have greater than 75 to more than 11,000 repeats.
Reboxetine is a selective noradrenergic reuptake inhibitor that binds to the norepinephrine transporter and blocks reuptake of norepinephrine.
Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
Carboxyhemoglobin levels are measured by colorimetry, GLC, or may be performed on a cooximeter, which also determines total Hb, percent oxyhemoglobin, percent methemoglobin and calculates O2 content.
The sole, also called Dover sole, black sole, true sole, tounge, etc, is a highly valued fish.
All four isoforms are specific for prostate cancer, but p2PSA has been shown to be the most elevated in men with prostate cancer compared to those with negative biopsies.
M canis causes dermatophytosis that is also known as ring worm.
Unlike Gylcyphagus domesticus, these mites have an inserted, elongated, and pointed scale on the end segment of the legs.
Cystathionine beta-synthase is an enzyme encoded by the CBS gene and converts homocysteine and serine to form cystathionine.
Caffeine is methylxanthine naturally occurring in some beverages such as coffee, and is also a pharmacological agent.
Past hepatitis G infections can be detected by the persistance of E2 envelope antibodies
The minor fragment formed when C5 convertase cleaves C5 into C5a and COMPLEMENT C5B. C5a is a 74-amino-acid glycopeptide with a carboxy-terminal ARGININE that is crucial for its spasmogenic activity.
It works by binding to a site on the bacterial ribosome, causing the genetic code to be misread.
The cytochrome P450 proteins are monooxygenases which catalyze many reactions involved in drug metabolism and synthesis of cholesterol, steroids and other lipids.
IgE-mediated hypersensitivity: positive skin tests and specific IgE against BSA.
Rickettsia is a genus of non-motile, Gram-negative, and highly pleomorphic bacteria.
The difference in serum and synovial fluid glucose levels is known as the synovial fluid effusion glucose gradient.
Fibronectin exists as a dimer, consisting of two nearly identical monomers linked by a pair of disulfide bonds.
Sialophorin (leukosialin) is a major sialoglycoprotein on the surface of human T lymphocytes, monocytes, granulocytes, and some B lymphocytes, which appears to be important for immune function and may be part of a physiologic ligand-receptor complex involved in T-cell activation.
Chromium also appears to be directly involved in carbohydrate, fat, and protein metabolism, but more research is needed to determine the full range of its roles in the body.
Microscopy is a technique that uses microscopes to examine objects too small to be seen with the naked eye.
Chloral hydrate, also known as trichloroacetaldehyde monohydrate, 2,2,2-trichloro-1,1-ethanediol, and under the tradenames Aquachloral, Novo-Chlorhydrate, Somnos, Noctec, and Somnote, is a sedative and hypnotic drug as well as a chemical reagent and precursor.
The classification initially proposed (Brouet et al) describes simple cryoglobulins as type I, and sub-divides mixed cryoglobulins as type II, in which case the antiglobulin is typically monoclonal, and type III, in which the antiglobulin is polyclonal.
Nuclear pore glycoprotein-210 (gp210) is an essential trafficking regulator in the eukaryotic nuclear pore complex.
Most commonly, the potassium salt potassium clavulanate is combined with amoxicillin (co-amoxiclav or ticarcillin.
Conversely, increased levels of kynurenic acid have also been linked to certain pathological conditions.
It is marketed by Abbott as Kaletra (high-income countries) and Aluvia (low-income countries), both of which represent a co-formulation with a sub-therapeutic dose of ritonavir, as a component of combination therapy to treat HIV/AIDS.
Its principal value is as a chemical restraint in hyper or fractious animals
It can also be found in Japan and has colonised Europe.
Leber's congenital amaurosis (LCA) is a rare inherited eye disease that appears at birth or in the first few months of life, and affects around 1 in 80,000 of the population
U. urealyticum has been implicated in some cases of non-gonococcal urethritis.
Hepatocyte is a cell of the main tissue of the liver.
One study suggests a narrow 'therapeutic' window and stresses the danger in taking this drug.
Amoxapine is a tetracyclic antidepressant used in the treatment of depression, anxiety disorders, panic disorder, and bipolar disorder.
The Environmental Protection Agency cancelled the use of lindane in the dairy and agricultural industries and it is no longer produced in the United States.
This tree is widely distributed in tropical West Africa, from Guinea to Cameroon.
Haloperidol is an older antipsychotic used in the treatment of schizophrenia and acute psychotic states and delirium.
The GJB1 gene (gap junction protein, beta 1, 32kDa) is located on chromosome Xq13.1.
The second-most common type of cast, granular casts can result either from the breakdown of cellular casts or the inclusion of aggregates of plasma proteins (e.g., albumin) or immunoglobulin light chains.
Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
Immunocompromised patients experience much more acute symptoms that can affect the eyes, lungs, liver, esophagus, stomach, and intestines.
Special adverse reactions to Wheat protein include: - Baker's asthma (an IgE-mediated reaction to inhaled flour from Wheat and other grains) - Coeliac disease, a non-IgE-mediated enteropathy caused by Wheat gliadin, and - Wheat-dependant exercise-induced asthma or anaphylaxis.
Enzymes of the glutathione S-transferase (GST) family are composed of many cytosolic, mitochondrial, and microsomal (now designated as MAPEG) proteins.
It is a planar, unsaturated compound that has the ability to absorb light.
Casein (from Latin caseus, "cheese") is the name for a family of related phosphoproteins (αS1, αS2, β, κ).
The inferior-posterior angle formed by the Sella-Nasion line and the Nasion-Pogonion line
Human infants have relatively low amounts of this enzyme and because of this, babies should not be given foods high in erucic acid.
It is a monoglycerophospholipid in which a phosphorylcholine moiety occupies a glycerol substitution site.
HGF levels may also be a marker for prognosis in Chikungunya virus-induced arthralgia, where higher HGF levels correlate with higher rates of recovery.
Derived from tyrosine it is the precursor to norepinephrine and epinephrine.
Thus the complete absence of thiocyanate or reducted thiocyanate in the human body, (e.g., cystic fibrosis) is damaging to the human host defense system.
Neuropeptide Y (NPY) is a 36-amino acid peptide neurotransmitter found in the brain and autonomic nervous system.
For epidemiologic purposes, multiple drug resistant organisms (MDROs) are defined as microorganisms, predominantly bacteria, that are resistant to one or more classes of antimicrobial agents.
The encoded protein contains a polyglutamine tract near its N-terminus that may be polymorphic.
This gene encodes a cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor, which shares a limited similarity with CDK inhibitor CDKN1A/p21.
The name "Scrapie" was coined as infected animals usually scrape off their wool from itching and rubbing.
Recent study shows that mutation of ALK "are linked to 10-15% of "neuroblastoma", a deadly childhood form of cancer.
It is cause of up to 10% of all respiratory diseases.
Cytochrome P450-2C9 (CYP2C9; ), a member of the cytochrome P450 mixed-function oxidase system, is involved in the metabolism 10-15% of drugs in current clinical use.
A dosage compensation process occurring at an early embryonic stage in mammalian development whereby, at random, one X CHROMOSOME of the pair is repressed in the somatic cells of females.
Barley is probably native to the Middle East, from Afghanistan to northern India.
Some disorders associated with Type I are: multiple myeloma, Waldenstrom's macroglobulinemia, and other lymphoproliferative diseases.
The BMPR1A gene encodes the bone morphogenetic protein receptor 1A protein.
Tropomyosin belongs to a class of highly conserved proteins in invertebrates and vertebrates, the muscle protein of invertebrates, e.g., lobster, fly.
IgG autoantibodies directed against the glycoprotein IIb/IIIa complex of the platelets and the Fc receptor III of neutrophils have been implicated in this phenomenon.
The ARSB gene (arylsulfatase B) is located on chromosome 5q14.1.
as well as an oral chemotherapeutic drug used to treat Cushing's syndrome and adrenal cortical carcinoma.
It can be a precursor to NIACIN, albeit inefficiently, in mammals.
A species of gram-negative, aerobic, rod-shaped bacteria commonly isolated from clinical specimens (wound, burn, and urinary tract infections).
The coenzyme form of Vitamin B1 present in many animal tissues.
Mutations in this gene result in autosomal recessive Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease type 4C, a childhood-onset neurodegenerative disease characterized by demyelination of motor and sensory neurons.
Mature circulating B cells can be separated into three subpopulations based on cell surface CD27 and IgD expression: 1) naive B cells (CD27-IgD+); 2) memory B cells that have not undergone immunoglobulin class switching (CD27+IgD+); and 3) memory B cells that have class switched (CD27+IgD-).
Single-stranded chemiluminescent DNA probes, which are complementary to a region of each target amplicon, are labeled with different acridinium ester molecules.
Bourbon virus belongs to the group of viruses called thogotoviruses.
This fruit grows best in semiarid climates and is harvested based on maturity, not size.
Avian paramyxovirus 1 (APMV-1) causes Newcastle disease, a contagious bird disease affecting many domestic and wild avian species.
Parainfluenza virus is from the family Paramyxoviridae and the genera Paramyxovirus which includes the parainfluenza viruses and the mumps virus.
Transmission may also occur through transfusion of infected blood or transplantation of infected organs or tissues or after occupational exposure in healthcare settings.
With oral bupropion treatment, hydroxybupropion is present in plasma at area under the curve concentrations that are as many as 16 times greater than those of bupropion itself, demonstrating extensive first-pass metabolism of bupropion into hydroxybupropion in humans.
This disorder is usually diagosed at birth or during early childhood, is progressive, and affected individuals often do not survive more than 2 to 3 years after the onset of symptoms.
Urbankova, et al., suggested using a combination of conventional cytogentics, FISH and arrayCGH to determine the molecular karyotype of CLL since it is an important indicator of disease prognosis.
Symptoms of limbic encephalitis include delirium, mood change, memory and personality disturbance and focal seizures of mesial temporal type with or without secondary generalization.
A similar syndrome has been reported in adults with malabsorption.
Mutations in this gene are associated with Birt-Hogg-Dube syndrome, which is characterized by fibrofolliculomas, renal tumors, lung cysts, and pneumothorax.
The MYEOV gene is 360 kb from the CCND1 gene, which is also involved chromosomal rearrangements resulting in human cancers.
Because of the potential for more severe side effects the elderly should avoid use and it is contradicted in children less than 2 years.
Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate (TDF or PMPA), marketed as Viread, belongs to a class of antiretroviral drugs known as nucleotide analogue reverse transcriptase inhibitors (NRTIs), which block reverse transcriptase, an enzyme crucial to viral production.
It was originally developed to kill the larval stage of mosquitoes, but is now used to treat cutworms, corn rootworms, cockroaches, grubs, flea beetles, flies, termites, fire ants, and lice found on crops such as cotton, fruit, nuts, vegetables, as well as lawns and ornamental plants.
Which antibodies are positive may in the future provide a clue to what subtype of lung cancer the patient has developed.
IVS3-48T->C is a variant of the FECH gene associated with reduced gene expression.
Several transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
Camomile pollen can induce asthma, allergic rhinitis and allergic conjunctivitis
This suggests that diagnostic testing for multiple RV groups should be included when testing a swine herd for enteric diseases even after they have been vaccinated against a single strain.
This gene encodes apolipoprotein A-I, which is the major protein component of high density lipoprotein (HDL) in plasma.
It is a small tree, growing to about 10 m tall, with thorny shoots and evergreen leaves 4-10 cm long.
Phl p 7 (1,7-8,59-60) is a minor, non- glycosylated, allergen of Timothy grass pollen, recognising serum IgE antibodies in 10-15% of grass pollen-sensitized subjects.
High levels of PLA in the urine or blood are often indicative of phenylketonuria (PKU) and hyperphenylalaninemia (HPA).
The protein is thought to disrupt chromatin in localized areas, enhancing transcription of certain genes while repressing the transcription of other genes.
The amino terminus of calreticulin interacts with the DNA-binding domain of the glucocorticoid receptor and prevents the receptor from binding to its specific glucocorticoid response element.
Black pepper is made from the unripened fruit as it begins to turn red.
Diagnosis of S. aureus infection may vary by infection site, e.g., clinical signs and symptoms for skin infections, blood or tissue cultures for other infection types.
It is secreted by pancrease as trypsinogen and converted to its active form in the intestine.
Some affected infants will exhibit vomiting, hypoglycemia, lethargy, poor feeding, failure to thrive, hypotonia, seizures, developmental delay, and microcephaly.
Muscle myosin is a hexameric protein containing 2 heavy chain subunits, 2 alkali light chain subunits, and 2 regulatory light chain subunits.
The activated clotting time (ACT) measures the time to clot formation after addition of an activator, and is used primarily to monitor a patient's coagulation status during surgery, especially procedures during which patients are on cardiopulmonary bypass.
Ragweed, and in particular Short ragweed (A. artemisiifolia), is clinically the most important source of seasonal aeroallergens, as it is responsible for both the majority of cases and the most severe cases of allergic rhinitis.
Fentanyl is used in transmucosal form to treat breakthrough cancer pain.
FCGR3B (Fc fragment of IgG, low affinity IIIb, receptor), also known as CD16b (Cluster of Differentiation 16b), is a human gene.
The PON1 enzyme is a major anti-atherosclerotic component of high-density lipoprotein (HDL) and may protect against LDL oxidation.
The early nomenclature tried to accommodate this observation by using a numerical system; eg. LW1, LW2, etc.
The CACT gene (solute carrier family 25 (carnitine/acylcarnitine translocase), member 20) gene is located on chromosome 3p21.31.
Another study found an association between the number of specific positive antibodies within the anti-U1 snRNP (rather than the presence of particular markers) and certain clinical features.
No genetic material is gained or lost in a balanced translocation, so these chromosomal changes usually do not cause any health problems in the parent.
third trimester levels > 50 ng/ml predictive of premature labor.
It is a colorless flammable liquid with a sweet smell of banana.
The 15 AHA segments are defined as follows: 1) proximal right coronary artery; 2) mid right coronary artery; 3) distal right coronary artery; 4) posterior descending branch of right coronary artery; 5) left main coronary artery; 6) proximal left anterior descending artery; 7) mid left anterior descending artery; 8) distal left anterior descending artery; 9) first diagonal branch; 10) second diagonal branch; 11) proximal left circumflex artery; 12) obtuse marginal artery; 13) mid distal left circumflex; 14) posterolateral branch of left circumflex artery; and 15) posterior descending branch of left circumflex artery.
Defects in this enzyme, due to gene mutations or genetic variations, are the common cause of chronic hereditary nonspherocytic hemolytic anemia (CNSHA or HNSHA).
N-Methylformamide (NMF) is a colorless, nearly odorless, organic compound with molecular formula CH3NHCHO, which is a liquid at room temperature.
Papaveretum is a standardised preparation of mixed opium alkaloids used on cardiac patients.
A coffee bean is the seed of the coffee plant (the pit inside the red or purple fruit).
Alone and in combination with similar phytosterols, β-sitosterol reduces blood levels of cholesterol, and is sometimes used in treating hypercholesterolemia.
Coagulation surface induced (aPTT) is the evaluation of intrinsic coagulation system and is useful in monitoring heparin therapy; aid in screening for the following: presence of classical hemophilia A, and B; Christmas disease; congenital deficiencies of factors II, V, VIII, IX, X, XI, and XII; presence of dysfibrinogenemia; disseminated intravascular coagulation; liver failure;congenital hypofibrinogenemia; vitamin K deficiency; congenital deficiency of Fitzgerald factor; congenital deficiency of prekallikrein; circulatory anticoagulant when heparin is given for treatment or prevention of thromboembolism.
The sensory nerve action potential (SNAP) measures the action potential in sensory nerve fibers in one location when another location along the same nerve is stimulated.
The influenza virus life cycle begins with the binding of viral HA to host cell receptors.
An overlapping open reading frame has been found for this gene that encodes a smaller, structurally unrelated protein, AltPrp.
Phosphorous is needed for the body to make protein for the growth, maintenance, and repair of cells and tissues, and also helps the body make ATP, a molecule the body uses to store energy.
The end result of a diagnostic process that identifies a disease.
Influenza A viruses are divided into subtypes based on two proteins on the surface of the virus: the hemagglutinin (H) and the neuraminidase (N).
CLN2 is a progressive neurodegenerative disorder characterized by dementia, seizures, and visual failure.
MMRCS is a rare autosomal recessive syndrome associated with various types of childhood cancer, including hematological malignancies, central nervous system tumors, CRC, intestinal polyps, embryonic tumors and rhabdomyosarcoma.
2,4-TDI is produced in the pure state, but TDI is often marketed as 80/20 and 65/35 mixtures of the 2,4 and 2,6 isomers respectively.
Kelp, a kind of SEAWEED, usually refers to species in the genera LAMINARIA or MACROCYSTIS, but the term may also be used for species in FUCUS or Nereocystis.
Elevation of monoclonal free light chains in serum or urine signal malignant plasma cell proliferation (multiple myeloma), primary amyloidosis, or light chain deposition disease.
It belongs to the piperazine class of phenothiazines and is extremely potent; more potent than haloperidol and around fifty to seventy times the potency of chlorpromazine.
Heparan sulfate (heparin), located on endothelial cells, binds to antithrombin causing a conformational change that results in its activation.
Peptides derived from normal human proteins are recognized as such, whereas foreign peptides derived from pathogens trigger an immune response.
Many antidepressants also are used for the treatment of anxiety disorders, and tricyclic antidepressants are used in the treatment of chronic pain disorders such as chronic functional abdominal pain (CFAP), myofascial pain syndrome, and post-herpetic neuralgia.
Sulbactam is a molecule which is given in combination with beta-lactam antibiotics to overcome beta-lactamase, an enzyme produced by bacteria that destroys the antibiotics.
Increased kappa free light chains and an increased kappa/lambda ratio are present with plasma cell disorders that produce excess monoclonal kappa light chains.
Patients who are carriers of the rs1414334 C allele have been found to have an increased risk for the metabolic syndrome.
CPA is encoded by the cpa gene that is located on the chromosome and is produced by all strains of C. perfringens.
The chemical compound acetylcholine, often abbreviated as ACh, was the first neurotransmitter to be identified.
Chancroid starts as an erythematous papular lesion that breaks down into a painful bleeding ulcer with a necrotic base and ragged edge.
IL-12 and IL-23 are parts of the Th1 and Th17 inflammatory pathways, respectively, and are important in the development of psoriasis.
These mutations are responsible for less than 10 percent of all early-onset cases of the disorder.
Calcium oxalate crystals can form at any pH and have various microscopic morphologies.
Performed by adding drops of 10% KOH to vaginal fluid ond noting a "fishy" amine odor
Large amounts of orotidine are excreted in the urine of cancer patients treated with 6-azauridine.
This gene encodes a protein of the tripartite motif (TRIM) family.
Caffeine is a xanthine alkaloid compound that acts as a stimulant in humans.
Mutations in this gene can cause long QT syndrome type 2 (LQT2).
Common names include Passion Fruit (UK and US), Passionfruit (Australia and New Zealand), Granadilla (South America), Magrandera Shona (Zimbabwe), and Lạc tiên, Chanh dây or Chanh leo (Vietnamese)
Antibodies to Kelch-like protein 11 are associated with paraneoplastic neurologic disease related to a variety of tumors including teratoma, testicular seminoma, and mixed germ cell tumors.
Isospora species of dogs and cats are generally not infective to humans.
It is composed of three subunits, alpha, beta, and gamma, which are bound to each other by disulfide bonds into a cross-shaped molecule.
It is a stable substance under normal conditions, but can be inactivated by heat above 80 degrees Centigrade.
The enzyme (cofactors iron and ascorbate) catalyzes the hydroxylation of lysyl residues in collagen-like peptides.
The TNNT3 gene (troponin T3, fast skeletal type) is located on chromosome 11p15.5.
HNPCC, also known as Lynch syndrome, is an autosomal dominant disease associated with familial predisposition to early-onset colorectal cancer (CRC) as well as cancer of other parts of the gastrointestinal tract, urological, and female reproductive tract.
The two other components of the NHG are tubule formation and mitotic activity.
This gene encodes a large protein that resides in the limiting membrane of endosomes and lysosomes and mediates intracellular cholesterol trafficking via binding of cholesterol to its N-terminal domain.
Symptoms may include angioedema, urticaria, atopic dermatitis, asthma, rhinitis, and gastrointestinal symptoms such as nausea, vomiting and abdominal pain.
Clostridium difficile toxin's A and B are encoded by the tcdA and tcdB genes, respectively.
The fever can reach 105F (40.5C) and stays high for five to six days at a time.
It enhances responsiveness of eosinophils inducing polarization, shape change, chemotaxis, cytotoxity, oxygen radical release and prolongs survival.
Those with or without steatoses there is no difference between the different NAFLD subtypes.
Carotene is found in three different variations: alpha-carotene, beta-carotene (most common), and gamma-carotene.
Historically, it has been used to treat breakthrough pain and is commonly used in pre-procedures as a pain reliever as well as an anesthetic in combination with a benzodiazepine.
Usually of no clinical significance, but may be found in chronic UTI.
Isolates of Enterococcus gallinarum and E. casseliflavus/E. flavescens demonstrate an inherent, low-level resistance to vancomycin.
Cultivated in many parts of the world, this firm, medium-sized bean has a dark red skin and cream-colored flesh.
Some species are non pathogenic; some species are pathogenic (nocardiosis).
(Information from: Kumps A,Duez P,Mardens Y. Metabolic, Nutritional, Iatrogenic, and Artifactual Sources of Urinary Organic Acids: A Comprehensive Table.
GLUT1 is a major glucose transporter in the mammalian blood-brain barrier.
The presence of nGly m 6 IgE antibodies indicates an allergy to soybeans.
Mitochondrial Antibody is present in approximately 95% of patients with primary biliary cirrhosis (PBC).
Bla g 2 is one of the most potent Cockroach allergens, causing sensitisation in approximately 60 to 80% of Cockroach-allergic patients.
It has a broad, bulbous base that is treated like a vegetable.
It can be administered orally and intravenously and is effective against respiratory and skin pathogens, including Staphylococcus and Streptococcus species, gram-negative organisms such as Haemophilus influenzae, and atypical respiratory pathogens such as Mycoplasma and Chlamydophila pneumoniae and Legionella pneumophila.
"Partial D" is a variant in which only some epitopes of the D antigen are expressed.
Pronouns are words used instead of a noun or noun phrase.
The expressed protein contains two conserved domains, a C-peptide (or aristaless domain) and the prd-like class homeobox domain.
As such, hydroxybupropion is likely to play a very important role in the effects of oral bupropion, which could be accurately thought of as functioning in large part as a prodrug to hydroxybupropion.
Triticum repens L., Agropyron repens (L.) P. Beauv., Elymus repens (L.) Gould) is a very common species of grass native to most of Europe, Asia, and northwest Africa.
Recombinant non-glycosylated protein produced in an E. coli strain carrying a cloned cDNA encoding Parietaria judaica allergen Par j 2.
When microorganisms infect the body, they stimulate phagocytes to assemble NADPH oxidase, which is critical to the chemical reaction that converts oxygen to a superoxide.
BWA can also include meningeal involvement and fatal hemorrhagic complications have been reported .
It is a homologue of the major Birch pollen allergen Bet v 1, and is placed it in the Group 1 Fagales protein family.
This negative (nil) control includes the carrier diluent used in the other stimulants with no specific antigen, so the expected result is minimal production of gamma interferon.
A calculation derived from the strength of the blood bank blood cell antibodies reaction and the titer result as specified in the technical manual of the AABB.
This modification prevents the formation of phosphodiester linkages which are needed for the completion of nucleic acid chains.
Skin patch testing can be used to identify sensitivity, though history of exposure is more commonly used in diagnosing an allergy to A. deltoidea.
The vena contracta (VC) is the diameter of the smallest area of regurgitant blood flow.
It can be administered orally or injected, and is eliminated by renal excretion.
Gentamicin, a high potency antibiotic, is used to screen for antibiotic synergy.
B. melitensis has the broadest host range, infecting cattle, camels and dogs, in addition to sheep, goats and humans.
Other members are Placenta growth factor (PGF), VEGF-B, VEGF-C and VEGF-D. They were discovered later than VEGF-A. Before their discovery, VEGF-A was called just VEGF.
Bacteria are also classified by the source carbon that they utilize: heterotrophic, from organic sources or autotrophic, from carbon dioxide.
Mutations in this gene result in late-infantile neuronal ceroid lipofuscinosis, which is associated with the failure to degrade specific neuropeptides and a subunit of ATP synthase in the lysosome.
In addition to single drug preparations, it is also available as Anxiset, Deanxit, Mixit, a combination product containing both melitracen and flupentixol.
The encephalomyelitic form of PHEV infection starts with vomiting which is not severe, then moves to muscle tremors and hyperesthesia.
MARs may serve as a legal record of the drugs administered to a patient by a health care professional.
PCMV invades several types of epithelial cells and forms intranuclear inclusion bodies that are visible microscopically when stained.
Type V collagen is found in tissues containing type I collagen and appears to regulate the assembly of heterotypic fibers composed of both type I and type V collagen.
The urine from patients with pressure sores contains significantly more Glycylproline than the urine from the control.
Hyperlysinemia (elevated lysine levels) is an inherited condition characterized by elevated lysine blood levels, caused by the shortage of the enzyme that breaks down lysine.
La Crosse virus is a mosquito-borne virus causing encephalitis in the United States at higher rates than bacterial meningitis.
Dapsone (diamino-diphenyl sulfone) is an antibacterial most commonly used in combination with rifampicin and clofazimine as multidrug therapy (MDT) for the treatment of Mycobacterium leprae infections (leprosy).
6-Monoacetylmorphine (6-MAM) Is an intermediate metabolite between heroin and morphine.
C-terminal, also known as copeptin, is a 39-amino acid glycopeptide that comprises the C-terminal part of provasopressin, a precursor of vasopressin.
Monomethylarsonate (MMA) and dimethylarsinate (DMA) are organic arsenic compounds that are formed via metabolism of arsenite and arsenate species; both MMA and DMA are widely used in agriculture.
A species of the genus BRUCELLA whose natural hosts are sheep and goats.
Mutations in the APOB gene affect the region of apolipoprotein B that binds to the LDL receptor, which results in decreased receptor binding, leading to increased circulating levels of LDL.
If an HIV case is reported to the health department but subsequently identified as HIV-2, health-care providers should update the case report to reflect the correct type.
GLM is administered once a month compared to the other TNF-α inhibitors that require dosing twice a week or every two weeks.
However, the major thiol in plasma is cysteine, which is present at concentrations approximately 10 times greater than homocysteine; therefore homocystine in plasma is insignificant, and consequently homocystine is unlikely to influence LDL oxidation in vivo.
The door-to-balloon time (D2B) is the interval between arrival at the hospital and time of first balloon inflation during primary percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI).
The protein encoded by this gene catalyzes the conversion of 5,10-methylenetetrahydrofolate to 5-methyltetrahydrofolate, a co-substrate for homocysteine remethylation to methionine.
Starting from gestrinone, chemists can synthesize tetrahydrogestrinone (THG) in one reaction step.
Clinical presentations range from nose bleeds, menorrhagia or post-surgical bleeding in the mild cases to hematuria, hematomas, Gi bleeding, bleeding into joints or tissues in more severe cases.
A. suis is commonly harbored in swine tonsillar tissue, and if it enters the bloodstream can cause sepsis, meningitis, arthritis, and pneumonia.
Aztreonam is a beta lactam antibiotic used totreat infection caused by gram-negative bacteria.
The encoded protein contains four EF-hand Ca(2+) binding motifs in the N-terminal domain, and localizes to mitochondria.
Lactose intolerance is usually diagnosed by patient history, physical exam, and the hydrogen breath test and/or stool acidity test.
If the feed is not uniformily mixed, pigs may be exposed to toxic levels of copper.
Stiripentol (marketed as Diacomit by Laboratoires BIOCODEX) is an anticonvulsant drug used in the treatment of epilepsy.
Ragweed pollen appears to also be cross-reactive with pollen from Yellow dock (Rumex crispus).
Phorate is among the most poisonous insecticides in use and is classified as a Restricted Use Pesticide (RUP) that can only be applied by certified applicators.
Pyrovalerone (Centroton, Thymergix) is a psychoactive drug with stimulant effects via acting as a norepinephrine-dopamine reuptake inhibitor (NDRI), and is used for the clinical treatment of chronic fatigue or lethargy and as an anorectic or appetite suppressant for weight loss purposes.
They are worm-like organisms that live and feed off living hosts, receiving nourishment and protection while disrupting their hosts' nutrient absorption, causing weakness and disease.
Mutations in this gene result in dihydropyrimidine dehydrogenase deficiency, an error in pyrimidine metabolism associated with thymine-uraciluria and an increased risk of toxicity in cancer patients receiving 5-fluorouracil chemotherapy.
Defects in this gene have also been associated with early-onset stroke.
However, its usefulness is transient often because of rapid development of tolerance.
Interleukin 1b promotes antigen specific immune responses, inflammation, secretion, Colony Stimulating Factors, proteoglycanase, collagenase, and gelatinase activity, acute phase response, and cartilage resorption.
In mammals, it consists of the ascending colon, transverse colon, the descending colon, the sigmoid colon, and the rectum.
However the estrogen receptor also has additional functions independent of DNA binding.
Heparin administered to patients in the cardiac OR is unfractionated, not low molecular weight.
A histamine H1 receptor antagonist that is effective in the treatment of chronic urticaria, dermatitis, and histamine-mediated pruritus.
Canis familiaris (Can f) 4 is a dog dander allergen.
The most common uses are the purification or detection of various biomolecules.
Phosphatidylserine (PS) is a phospholipid nutrient found in fish, green leafy vegetables, soybeans and rice, and is essential for the normal functioning of neuronal cell membranes.
Short, Giant, Western, and False ragweeds displayed comparable reactivity in both inhibition and absorption experiments.
Thiocyanate is a metabolite of sodium nitroprusside, after rhodanese catalyses its reaction with thiosulfate
HCoV229E is associated with a range of respiratory symptoms, ranging from the common cold to high-morbidity outcomes such as pneumonia and bronchiolitis.
Can be associated with Multiple Endocrine Neoplasia Type 1 (Pituitary, parathyroid and pancreatic tumors).
Bendiocarb is not considered to be carcinogenic, but it is acutely toxic.
In addition to quantifying adrenal insufficiency, the test can distinguish whether the cause is adrenal (low cortisol and aldosterone production) or pituitary (low ACTH production).
It is still not clear whether ZIKV in humans increases viral titers enough to trigger a new cycle when an infected person is bitten by a naïve mosquito.
PCSK9 encodes proprotein convertase subtilisin/kexin type 9, an enzyme which binds to several different LDL, VLDL and apolipoprotein receptors and promotes their degradation.
The encoded protein is a component of gap junctions, which are composed of arrays of intercellular channels that provide a route for the diffusion of low molecular weight materials from cell to cell.
For the calculation of TZI, a maximum of four defects per abnormal spermatozoon is counted, one for each of the following areas: head, midpiece, principal piece and excess residual cytoplasm.
The CFTR gene (cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator (ATP-binding cassette sub-family C, member 7)) is located on chromosome 7q31.2.
Cabotegravir is an investigational drug being developed for the treatment and prevention of infection by the human immunodeficiency virus 1 (HIV-1).
Veterinary Medicine: Porcine parainfluenza virus 1 (PPIV1) is an enveloped, non-segmented, single-stranded RNA virus found only in domestic pigs.
The PHI has been found to be a diagnostic marker for prostate cancer, and may also be a marker of metastatic prostate cancer in patients who have undergone previous resection .
The few cases in the United States are mostly the result of eating undercooked game or home reared pigs.
Ocular causes of abnormal head posture include: 1) eye misalignment or strabismus, in which the patient finds the head position that will best align vision and/or relieve eye strain; 2) nystagmus, in which different head positions may slow down nystagmus and allow better vision; 3) ptosis, in which the chin is typically elevated to help the eye or eyes see "beneath" the droopy eyelid, and 4) refractive errors, in which turning the head to one side may allow the patient to see better since they are looking through the narrowed opening of the eyelids, which simulates a "squinting" mechanism.
Associated with increased specific gravity >1.040 due to recent X-ray procedures.
The majority of dietary acylglycerols are in the form of TAG, which comprise more than 90% of common edible oils such as olive, soybean, palm, and corn oils.
DDT and DDE are slow to decompose and remain in the environment for a very long time.
Taurolithocholic acid (TLC) is also a secondary BA, which is formed from conjugation of LCA with taurine.
A five-carbon sugar alcohol derived from XYLOSE by reduction of the carbonyl group.
This gene product has been shown to interact with cell-surface proteins, proteins involved in cytoskeletal dynamics and proteins involved in regulating ion transport.
It was developed in the late 1940s and was widely used in the agricultural industry until being phased out, starting in the late 1970s due to toxicity concerns.
In the last two decades there has been a noticeable increase in demand.
Even though Reoviridae have been identified with various diseases, the original name is still used.
Significantly elevated levels of ALT often suggest the existence of other medical problems such as viral hepatitis, diabetes, congestive heart failure, bile duct problems, infectious mononucleosis, or myopathy.
Meadow grass pollen is a common inducer of asthma, allergic rhinitis and allergic conjunctivitis.
The first case outside of China was in Malaysia and was reported on February 12, 2014.
Species of gram-negative bacteria in the family ANAPLASMATACEAE, causing EHRLICHIOSIS in DOGS.
The malformation of the normal prion proteins occurs when they are exposed to the mal-formed version of the protein.
The NF1 gene (neurofibromin 1) is located on chromosome 17q11.2.
However, when glutathione is depleted, the metabolite covalently binds to cysteine groups on proteins and forms a acetaminophen-cysteine conjugate (3-(cystein-S-yl)-acetaminophen, APAP-CYS), which is thought to lead to hepatotoxicity.
The MAPT gene (microtubule-associated protein tau) is located on chromosome 17q21.1.
Because they are difficult to isolate, the clinical role of Malassezia had been somewhat controversial.
Infants less than 4 months of age are especially prone to acute acquired methemoglobinemia when exposed to high levels of nitrate or nitrite levels.(CDC, ATSDR, Toxic Substances Portal - Nitrates and Nitrites, 2013)
Without the peptidoglycan chains, the bacterial septum and cell wall cannot be produced during cell division, which in turn affects the rigidity of the cell wall and leads to cell lysis.
High plasma concentrations of homocysteine may increase risk of cardiovascular disease.
It possesses profoundly potent anxiolytic, amnestic, hypnotic, anticonvulsant, skeletal muscle relaxant, and sedative properties.
Although not as toxic as many similar compounds, inhaled or ingested 1,1,1-trichloroethane does act as a central nervous system depressant and can cause effects similar to those of intoxication, including dizziness, confusion, and in sufficiently high concentrations, unconsciousness and death.
When GABA binds to GABA A, chloride channels open and allow the influx of chloride ions, which decrease the membrane potential and inhibit the neuron's action potential.
It causes the disease pneumocystis pneumonia (PCP), which afflicts people with weakened immune systems, such as children, the elderly, and especially AIDS patients, in whom it is most commonly observed today.
The cytotoxicity of cisplatin correlates with cellular arrest in the G2 phase of the cell cycle.
A single polypeptide motif of gp210 is responsible for sorting to nuclear membrane,and indicate the carboxyl tail of the protein is oriented toward the cytoplasmic side of the membrane.
Anti-PCA-2 (purkinje cell cytoplasmic antibody type 2) autoantibodies are important markers of neurological autoimmunity related to cancer.
Ang (1-7) is a product of the angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) 2 and can be produced from metabolism of both Angiotensin II and Angiotensin I via different pathways.
Relatively vigorous-intensity activity is defined as 60 to 84 percent of reserve.
(Glutamine is different than glutamate (glutamic acid), monosodium glutamate, and gluten.)
It is acquired by humans through the ingestion of raw or insufficiently cooked beef.
L-kynurenine is a central compound of the pathway of tryptophan metabolism pathway since it can change to the neuroprotective agent kynurenic acid or to the neurotoxic agent quinolinic acid.
Oral fluphenazine is rapidly metabolized, and the steady-state level of the parent drug is significantly lower than its metabolites, including 7-hydroxyfluphenazine.
A species of MORBILLIVIRUS causing cattle plague, a disease with high mortality.
As with many galliform species, the female is smaller than the male, and much less colorful.
They are detected in sideroblastic anemia, hemolytic anemia, and sickle cell disease.
In 1884, the strychnine-like toxin of tetanus was isolated from free-living, anaerobic soil bacteria and shortly thereafter, in 1890, a vaccine was developed using tetanus toxoid.
Direct or indirect contact with animal allergens frequently causes sensitisation.
Cytochrome P450 1A2 (CYP1A2)-mediated drug metabolism is highly variable and often based on a patient's genotype.
The observed frequencies of Hev b 8-specific IgE antibodies in sera of Latex-allergic patients in different risk groups range between 6 and 24%.
Hev b 3 has been found to be an important allergen in spina bifida patients, but the reactivity to Hev b 3 is less frequent among health care workers.
Panton and Valentine leucocidin (PVL) is a synergohymenotropic toxin produced by Staphylococcus aureus (SA).
Calicivirus infections commonly cause acute gastroenteritis, which is the inflammation of the stomach and intestines (e.g. the Norwalk Virus).
Triploidy risk refers to the fetus's risk of being affected by triploid syndrome.
Malathion is moderately toxic to birds and highly toxic to aquatic invertebrates, aquatic stages of amphibians, and to honey bees.
An algal bloom of dinoflagellates can result in a visible coloration of the water colloquially known as red tide.
Velvet grass pollen can induce asthma, allergic rhinitis and allergic conjunctivitis.
Humans, particularly children, have developed this condition, known as hemolytic anemia, after ingesting mothballs or deodorant blocks containing naphthalene.
Peru is an area of hyperendemicity for Sporothrix schenckii infections.
A genus of coccidian protozoa that comprise the malaria parasites of mammals.
Norcitalopram is a major metabolite of citalopram, an antidepressant and used to reduce ethanol uptake in alcoholics.
The Sysmex system defines them on the basis of their size and internal complexity not on the basis of particular CDx cells as is possible with cytometers.
A full-length representative protein would consist of an extracellular region, composed of three immunoglobulin-like domains, a single hydrophobic membrane-spanning segment and a cytoplasmic tyrosine kinase domain.
PMM2 enzyme deficiency is the cause of congenital disorder of glycosylation type Ia (CDG Ia, also known as Jaeken syndrome), an autosomal recessive disorder that presents in the neonatal period and is characterized by hypotonia, seizures, significant cognitive delay, encephalopathy, cardiomyopathy, liver insufficiency and hypogonadism.
Immunoglobulin E (IgE) is the antibody found in blood and tissues which causes allergies.
Recombinant non-glycosylated protein produced in an E. coli strain carrying a cloned cDNA encoding Betula verrucosa allergen Bet v 1.
Criteria to distinguish dicarboxylic aciduria originating from MCT feeding and other conditions are needed in urinary organic acid profiling for detecting inborn errors of metabolism.
Symptoms include diarrhea and juvenile cataracts in children, progressing to tendon and cerebral xanthomas with neurological deterioration and death.
Plasmid-mediated IMP-type carbapenemases are currently known to have 17 varieties.
The BMPR1A gene (bone morphogenetic protein receptor, type IA) is located on chromosome 10q22.3.
A serovar of the bacterial species LEPTOSPIRA INTERROGANS, whose primary host is the MOUSE.
It is used as an alkylating agent and industrial solvent to manufacture dodecylbenzyl chloride, water repellents, ion-exchange resins, polymers, and as a chloromethylation reagent.
The branched chain keto-acid dehydrogenase complex (BCKAD) is a multienzyme which catalyzes the oxidative decarboxylation of the alpha-keto acids derived from leucine, isoleucine, and valine.
Elevated concentrations often suggest impaired hepatic clearance due to liver disease.
Apoliprotein A is an important component of high-density lipoprotein (HDL or "good" cholesterol) and has several subtypes, including A-I and A-II, which are encoded by the APOA1 and APOA2 genes, respectively.
At physiological concentrations pristanic acid is a natural ligand for PPARα.
An extra or missing chromosome is a common cause of genetic disorders (birth defects).
Effects of synthetic cathinones depend on the individual, the dosage of drug administered and the route of administration but the primary effects which make them attractive are increased alertness, sociability, effectiveness in work, euphoria, intense physical and sensory pleasure and a decreased appetite.
The most important Hackberry for hayfever was reported to be C. occidentalis.
Elevated amounts of 14-3-3 proteins are found in the cerebrospinal fluid of patients with Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease.
CLL that is positive for the marker ZAP-70 has an average survival of 8 years.
The major role of IGF-2 is as a growth promoting hormone during gestation.
A mold (mould outside of US) is a fungus that grows in the form of multicellular filaments called hyphae.
The encoded preproprotein is proteolytically processed to generate alpha and beta subunits that are linked via disulfide bonds to form the mature receptor.
Clinically, higher % methylation results in lower levels of protein and, therefore, decreased cognitive ability.
No infections have been reported since 1977 and the virus is now believed to be virtually extinct.
Inappetance is the major practical problem encountered from excessive dietary magnesium.
However, the excretion of certain acyl glycines is increased in several inborn errors of metabolism.
The primary route of potential human exposure to tetranitromethane is inhalation.
Studies in mice have demonstrated that DNA methylation is required for mammalian development.
Vanadium is a recognized occupation hazard and exposure primarily occurs via inhalation or ingestion.
Octane number equates to the anti-knock qualities of a comparison mixture of heptane and isooctane which is expressed as the percentage of isooctane in heptane and is listed on pumps for gasoline dispensed in the United States and internationally.
However, the genus was then divided into five, with the name Acacia retained for the Australian species, and most of the species outside Australia divided into Vachellia and Senegalia.
Mode of transmission is unknown, but likely occurs through tick or other insect bites.
Almond may frequently result in sensitisation and may commonly induce symptoms of food allergy.
In organic synthesis, it is used from introducing the methoxymethyl (MOM) protecting group.
The platelet component distribution width (PCDW) is the standard deviation of the platelet component concentration; a measure of platelet shape change.
The Powassan virus is a tick-borne encephalitis virus related to the classic TBE flavivirus.
Medicinal teas are prepared from aerial parts of this shrub.
14-Hydroxyclarithromycin is an active metabolite of clarithromycin, an antibiotic used to treat a number of bacterial infections.
A colostomy is performed for several reasons, including abdominal infection,severe inflammatory bowel disease, intestinal obstruction or cancer.
In general, tumors with higher degrees of proliferation are associated with worse prognosis.
Recently other disorders causing severe effects on white matter have been defined.
If one or more answers is "Yes", then further testing is indicated.
Trichophyton fungi inhabit the soil, humans and animals, different species preferring different environments.
A cell in tissues, the mast cell, has many similar characteristics.
Liley plotted semilogarithmically the OD-450 vs. week of gestation and divided the results into 3 main zones based upon the degree of fetal involvement, Zone III: severe disease,Zone II: intermediate (mild-moderate) disease and Zone
This molecule, which appears to be the earliest inducible cell surface glycoprotein acquired during lymphoid activation, is involved in lymphocyte proliferation and functions as a signal-transmitting receptor in lymphocytes, natural killer (NK) cells, and platelets (Cambiaggi et al., 1992) .
Agaricus is a large and important genus of mushrooms containing both edible and poisonous species, with possibly over 300 members worldwide.
Moreover, endotoxemia of intestinal origin is considered to be an important factor in the development of alcoholic hepatitis, which is likely to develop on the basis of the small bowel bacterial overgrowth syndrome and an increased intestinal permeability.
This enzyme predominantly hydrolyzes ceramide trihexoside, and it can catalyze the hydrolysis of melibiose into galactose and glucose.
A zinc-containing sialoglycoprotein that is used to study aminopeptidase activity in the pathogenesis of hypertension. .
Neospora caninum does not appear to be infectious to humans.
The SLC17A5 gene (solute carrier family 17 member 5) is located on chromosome 6q13.
At room temperature, it is a colorless gas, which forms white fumes of hydrochloric acid upon contact with atmospheric humidity.
It is also second-line treatment for prophylaxis (prevention) against Pneumocystis pneumonia (PCP) caused by Pneumocystis jirovecii (formerly P. carinii) in HIV patients.
The alpha 2 fraction consists of alpha 2 macroglobulin, haptoglobin, and apolipoprotein B.
Intermediate or extensive metabolizers are expected to require a higher starting dose of tacrolimus.
A serotype of Salmonella enterica which is an etiologic agent of gastroenteritis in man and other animals.
Alpha chain 3 undergoes post-translational cleavage in the extracellular domain to yield disulfide-linked light and heavy chains that join with beta 1 to form an integrin that interacts with many extracellular-matrix proteins.
The TF gene (coagulation factor III (thromboplastin, tissue factor)) is located on chromosome 1p22-p21.
On the surface of B lymphocytes, however, IgM is found as a monomer and does not express the J chain.
Present on the surface of resting mast cells, basophils, Langerhans cells and other cell types.
Lurasidone is an atypical antipsychotic and also used for the treatment of depressive episodes associated with bipolar I disorder (bipolar depression) in adults when used alone or in combination with lithium or valproate.
C. gattii is found primarily in tropical and subtropical climates and is capable of causing cryptococcosis in non-immunocompromised patients.
Preventative Measures: free text environmental control measures or dietary restrictions, 5.
"Vitamin K," the generic name for a family of compounds with a common chemical structure of 2-methyl-1,4-naphthoquinone, is a fat-soluble vitamin that is naturally present in some foods and is available as a dietary supplement.
TLC is a strong agonist of TGR5, which is a G-protein coupled BA receptor expressed on macrophages.
At least eight Bartonella species or subspecies are known to infect humans.
The anterior chamber angle is the anatomical angle formed between the eye's cornea and iris (the "iridocorneal angle").
The LCA gene (protein tyrosine phosphatase, receptor type, C) gene is located on chromosome 1q31-q32.
Mutations of this gene have been associated with Sotos syndrome and Weaver syndrome.
Dimerization of the receptors results in phosphorylation in the complex.
This gene encodes a member of the Polycomb-group (PcG) family.
Thus, all these species may test positive in assays targeting the IS481 sequence.
Some people are gluten-intolerant, meaning their bodies produce an abnormal immune response breaking down gluten during digestion.
The clinical phenotype of both conditions includes vomiting, hypotonia, lethargy, apnea, hypothermia, and coma in the newborn period, and both MMA and PA are associated with elevated MCA and propionyl carnitine concentrations.
Under wright stain, polychromatic erythrocytes are diffusely blue due to residual RNA, and often slightly larger than normal erythrocytes.
Strain calculations may be either Lagrangian (a deformation from its original length) or natural (a deformation relative to the length at a previous time).
Spices may uncommonly induce symptoms of food allergy in sensitised individuals.
Nivalenol (NIV) is a trichothecene mycotoxin produced by various Fusarium species.
It is found in many hematological malignancies and thus a valuable treatment monitor and prognostic marker, particularly for multiple myeloma.
Castor bean plant, Ricinus communis, is known to have several components with allergenic and/ or toxic properties.
Myeloperoxidase is a neutrophilic enzyme that produces oxidants such as free radicals and hypohalous acids.
The active (trophozoite) stage exists only in the host and in fresh feces; cysts survive outside the host in water and soils and on foods, especially under moist conditions on the latter.
The distance from the distal crown contact of the maxillary first molar measured back to Pterygoid-Vertical (line from Pterygoid, perpendicular to the Frankfort horizontal plane)
Promethazine is a neuroleptic medication and first-generation antihistamine of the phenothiazine family.
The following information is included in the action plan: 1.
Angiotensin II causes profound vasoconstriction with a resulting increase in blood pressure.
Dau c 1 is a 16 kDa (or 18 kDa (3)) protein, a Bet v 1-homologue, a major allergen.
Overexpression of CENP-A has been associated with high grade cancers and is a prognostic factor for patients with estrogen receptor (ER)-positive breast cancer.
The small size of sdLDL increases its ability to penetrate atrial walls, where its cholesterol is used in the development of atherosclerotic plaques.
Increases in N-tau MIAA excretion is associated with systemic mastocytosis, a rare disorder caused by the presence of too many mast cells (mastocytes) and CD34+ mast cell precursors.
The Rothman Index (RI) is a calculation based on data found in a patient's electronic health record.
Abnormal CKMB concentrations are often associated with ischemia or necrotic injury to the heart.
It serves as a precursor for histamine and carnosine biosynthesis.
Brucellosis (Undulant fever or Malta fever) is an infectious disease caused by the Brucella bacteria.
Lecithin is mostly a mixture of glycolipids, triglycerides, and phospholipids (e.g. phosphatidylcholine, phosphatidylethanolamine, and phosphatidylinositol).
- Yellow Zone - with symptoms or peak flow readings, (50- 79%) of best, and quick relief medicines, along with recommendation on what to do, it symptoms persist.
The washout rate (WR) is a measure of how quickly a tracer is cleared.
Formate levels are measured to detect inhalant abuse of methanol-containing products.
The pilus 987P is often present on enterotoxigenic Escherichia coli (ETEC) found in the intestines of neonatal pigs, causing severe diarrheal disease.
This condition, called homocysteinuria, was later associated with premature occlusive CVD, even in children.
If cholesterol or cholesterol esters are present, they are associated with the "Maltese cross" sign under polarized light.
The general population risk of Angelman syndrome is about 1 in 12,000 - 20,000 live births, and does not change with maternal age.
Toxoplasmosis is minor and self-limiting in immunocompetent individuals who may be asymptomatic or present with fever, lymphadenopathy, muscle aches and headache.
Selected aminoacidopathies may be difficult to detect among newborns due to the lack of protein-containing diet.
At least 12 genotypes (A to N, excluding E and M) have been described based on genomic characteristics of the SH gene.
Beta-hexosaminidase is composed of two subunits, alpha and beta, which are encoded by separate genes.
It is widely distributed in biological tissue and is a component of lecithin.
There are at least three variants: MD, NE and Ph.
They are used as feed additives and growth promoters for poultry, swine, and cattle.
Alternative splicing of this gene results in multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms.
Extinct cockroaches such as the Carboniferous Archimylacris and the Permian Apthoroblattina were several times larger.
The word Ferret is generally applied to the domesticated variety (Mustela putorius furo) of the Polecat.
Lorazepam glucuronide has no demonstrable central nervous system (CNS) activity in animals.
Identifying the presence of these genes is important in monitoring drug resistance and determining the best antibiotic therapy methods.
The virulence genes can be transferred laterally between dividing EC.
FLAER qualification involves a fluorescent-labeled inactive toxin aerolysin, is considered to be more sensitive than flow cytometric quantification of antibody-binding to CD59 for PNH diagnosis.
The larger fragment C3b binds with C3 convertase to form C5 convertase.
Antibodies to the following antigen complexes can be measured: viral capsid antigen(VCA), early antigen (EA), and EBV nuclear antigen (EBNA).
Nagayoshi Nagai was the first one to isolate ephedrine from Ephedra vulgaris in 1885.
Also known as broad beta disease or dysbetalipoproteinemia, the most common cause for this form is the presence of ApoE E2/E2 genotype.
The hallmark of CHS is the presence of huge cytoplasmic granules in circulating granulocytes and many other cell types.
Canavan disease is caused by a mutation in the ASPA gene, which encodes aspartoacylase, the enzyme that metabolizes NAA.
The A Blood Type contains about twenty subgroups, of which A1 and A2 are the most common (over 99%).
Following the discovery ONNV has been responsible for several outbreaks in humans that occurred in East Africa.
Serratia species are gram-negative pathogens belonging to the Enterobacteriaceae family.
Lindane is an organchlorine insecticide and fumigant that poisons soil-dwelling and plant-eating insects.
Anileridine is no longer manufactured in the US or Canada.
There are many named varieties of the plant, ranging from dwarf forms about 30 cm tall to climbing forms up to 3 m tall.
Lauric acid (systematically: dodecanoic acid), a saturated fatty acid, is a white, powdery solid with a faint odor of bay oil or soap.
Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants have been found for this gene.
SNCA peptides are a major component of amyloid plaques in the brains of patients with Alzheimer's disease.
In Japan, Peach has been reported to be a frequent cause of oral allergy syndrome (OAS).
This gene is a member of the Bardet-Biedl syndrome (BBS) gene family.
The effective orifice area is calculated based on the equation F=A×V, where F is flow, A is area and V is velocity.
T cells are chiefly responsible for cell-mediated immunity whereas B cells are primarily responsible for humoral immunity (relating to antibodies).
CD45 (also known as leukocyte common antigen) is a tyrosine phosphatase specific to hematopoietic cells that is necessary for efficient T and B cell antigen receptor signal transduction.
The most clinical important antigen, D or Rho, was the first discovered in 1940 and has been generally referred to as the Rh antigen, being present in over 85% of the random population.
It grows mainly in southern and eastern Texas, eastern Oklahoma, Arkansas and Louisiana, with small populations in western Mississippi, south-western Tennessee and north-western Florida.
As a result, hemoglobin remains red and skin color is rosy despite physiologic anoxia.
Cryptococcus neoformans and C. gattii are fungi species known to cause pulmonary and systemic cryptococcosis.
The MIS content in the blood may be measured in both females and infant boys.
GM3 is a ganglioside found both within and outside the central nervous system.
In normal humans, it represents less than 0.25% of serum phospholipid fatty acids.
This gene is part of a cluster of cytochrome P450 genes on chromosome 7q21.1.
A deficiency of CoQ10 is associated with worse outcomes in chronic heart failure.
Its mechanism of action is binding to the C5 protein, which prevents formation of the complement C5b-9 complex.
This is the mechanism of action behind bile acid sequestrants.
Renal cells can be rectangular, polyhedral, cubiodial, or columnar with an eccentric nucleus.
Type 1 diabetes is caused by the immune system attacking pancreatic beta cells (cells that produce insulin) and Type 2 diabetes is caused by insulin resistance.
This result is then divided by the clotting time of the patient plasma.
Abiraterone, or abiraterone acetate, is an androstene derivative that inhibits STEROID 17-ALPHA-HYDROXYLASE and is used as an ANTINEOPLASTIC AGENT in the treatment of metastatic castration-resistant PROSTATE CANCER.
Vitamin B12 is a water-soluble vitamin naturally present in some foods, added to others, and available as a dietary supplement and a prescription medication.
The PLOD3 gene (procollagen-lysine, 2-oxoglutarate 5-dioxygenase 3) is located on chromosome 7q22.
Serum cryoglobulins are immunoglobulins that, in vitro, precipitate at temperatures below 37°C and redissolve on rewarming.
It has a high addiction potential, and frequent repeated administration causes a fast development of tolerance to it when compared to other substances, although occasional use without symptoms of withdrawal is also possible.
In addition to integrins, fibronectin also binds extracellular matrix components such as collagen, fibrin and heparan sulfate proteoglycans (e.g. syndecans).
MECP2, MBD1 and MBD2 can also repress transcription from methylated gene promoters.
Fat that occurs naturally in living matter contains varying proportions of saturated and unsaturated fat.
Cephalosporins are indicated for the prophylaxis and treatment of infections caused by bacteria susceptible to this particular form of antibiotic.
The PCSK9 gene (proprotein convertase subtilisin/kexin type 9) is located on chromosome 1p32.3.
Programmed cell death-ligand 1 (PD-L1), also known as cluster of differentiation 274 (CD274) or B7 homolog 1 (B7-H1), is a protein that in humans is encoded by the CD274 gene.
Shrimp is considered to be a highly allergenic food and can cause severe reactions.
Onion is one of the commonest causes of contact dermatitis of the hands.
FIV is the only non-primate lentivirus to cause an AIDS-like syndrome, but FIV is not typically fatal for cats, as they can live relatively healthily as carriers and transmitters of the disease for many years.
It is a frequent cause of both community and health care-associated infections, including bacteremia, pneumonia, meningitis, urinary tract infections, and wound infections, because of its ability to survive in a wide range of environmental conditions and the extent of its multidrug-resistance.
Within a short time, a growing number of patients who had not been exposed to animal markets were diagnosed with the infection, indicating person-to-person transmission.
In general, anti-SCL-70 antibody status may help with diagnosis, treatment planning and prognosis in patients with connective tissue disease.
It is most commonly isolated from infants and the elderly patients.
A glucagon stimulation test (also called glucagon challenge test) is used to help diagnose the etiology of hypoglycemia.
In some geographical areas one species may dominate, and IgE antibodies to only one of the species can be found in sensitised individuals.
Doriden is the brand-name version of the drug, which is rarely prescribed today.
In patients with malignant brain tumors, the loss of activity has been shown to be a promising predictor of response to alkylating agent-based chemotherapies, including BCNU (carmustine), CCNU and Temozolomide.
Once ingested, Salmonella survives the gastric acid barrier and penetrates the epithelial cells of the small and large intestines.
Mutations in this gene result in autosomal dominant hereditary thrombophilia.
It is occasionally used in human medicine to treat urinary tract infections.
Gerbera is a genus of plants belonging to the Asteraceae (daisies) family and widely used as an ornamental garden plant or as cut flowers.
The pharmacologic effects of beta adrenergic agonist drugs, such as orciprenaline, are at least in part attributable to stimulation through beta adrenergic receptors of intracellular adenyl cyclase, the enzyme which catalyzes the conversion of ATP to cAMP.
Although Bla g 1 is produced by both sexes and all life stages of the German cockroach, adult females produce and excrete significantly more Bla g 1 in their faeces than males or nymphs, even proportionally to body mass or mass of voided faeces.
In growing children, bone formation exceeds that of bone resorption.
Ole e 1 exhibits a high degree of polymorphism and is present in Olive tree pollen in 2 main forms, glycosylated and nonglycosylated, with apparent molecular masses of 20 and 18.5 kDa, respectively.
Enzyme-linked immunosorbent assays are available, but have low negative predictive values, which may be due in part to a reduced interaction of the immune system within the airways, where M hyopneumoniae colonizes.
Angiotensin I converting enzyme (ACE,, an exopeptidase, is a circulating enzyme that participates in the body's renin-angiotensin system (RAS) which mediates extracellular volume (i.e. that of the blood plasma, lymph and interstitial fluid), and arterial vasoconstriction.
C2 is cleaved by activated COMPLEMENT C1S into COMPLEMENT C2B and COMPLEMENT C2A. C2a, the COOH-terminal fragment containing a SERINE PROTEASE, combines with COMPLEMENT C4B to form C4b2a (CLASSICAL PATHWAY C3 CONVERTASE) and subsequent C4b2a3b (CLASSICAL PATHWAY C5 CONVERTASE).
nMPP is suspected to have antioxidants properties and is actively absorbed by the monocarboxylic acid transporter (MCT) in intestinal Caco-2 cell monolayers.
An oxidoreductase that catalyzes the reaction between superoxide anions and hydrogen to yield molecular oxygen and hydrogen peroxide.
2-Oxoadipic Aciduria can occur in patients with Kearns-Sayre Syndrome, a progressive disorder with onset prior to 20 years of age in which multiple organ systems are affected, including progressive external ophthalmoplegia, retinopathy, and the age of onset, and these are associated classically with abnormalities in cardiac conduction, cerebellar signs, and elevated cerebrospinal fluid protein., ,
Emesis (vomiting) is the forceful expulsion of the contents of the stomach through the mouth.
Insecticides inhibit both RBC and plasma cholinesterase levels, but serum levels return to normal before RBC levels normalize.
It has also been proposed as a radiation sensitizer for hypoxic cells.
An E. coli strain carrying a cloned cDNA encoding Penaeus aztecus allergen Pen a 1.
It is sometimes used in very small amounts as a flavoring food additive.
The other nineteen units are all primary amino acids, but due to the cyclic binding of the three-carbon side chain to the nitrogen of the backbone, proline lacks a primary amine group (ˆ'NH2).
It is an organothiophosphorus cholinesterase inhibitor used as an insecticide mainly on corn but also on sugar cane, peanuts, tobacco, turf, and some vegetable crops.
It is used in the treatment of otitis media, sinusitis, and infections caused by susceptible organisms involving the lower respiratory tract, skin and skin structure, and urinary tract; spectrum same as amoxicillin with additional coverage of beta-lactamase producing B. catarrhalis, H. influenzae, N. gonorrhoeae, and S. aureus (not MRSA).
Interleukin 3, also known as IL-3, is a protein that in humans is encoded by the IL3 gene.
Sildenafil citrate, sold as Viagra, Revatio and under various other trade names, is a drug used to treat erectile dysfunction and pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH).
Side effects of norfloxacin include gastrointestinal upset, skin rash, and allergic reactions.
The activated C1r serine protease, in turn, activates COMPLEMENT C1S proenzyme by cleaving the Arg426-Ile427 bond.
Hyperchromia (or hyperchromasia) is an abnormal increase in the hemoglobin content of the erythrocytes.
In molecular biology, cytolethal distending toxin (cdt) is a toxin produced by Proteobacteria, including Escherichia coli, Haemophilus spp and Campylobacter spp.
Normal to decreased iron levels are seen with protein depletion.
The granulopoiesis is regulated by humoral agents, like Colony Stimulating Factor and Interleukin 3.
The primary use of tricyclic antidepressants is to treat depression as well as neuralgic pain, chronic pain, and migraine prophylaxis.
Enterococcus is a genus of lactic acid bacteria of the phylum Firmicutes.
The term is named "sphere" to indicate that the correction is applied in all meridians of the eye.
Aspartylglucosaminidase is involved in the catabolism of N-linked oligosaccharides of glycoproteins.
Its effect is opposite that of insulin, which lowers blood glucose levels.
Bombesin affects vascular and other smooth muscle, gastric secretion, and renal circulation and function.
S. epidermidis is able to form biofilms on indwelling devices, and isolates are often resistant to a multitude of antibiotics which complicates effective treatment.
Gramicidin is a heterogeneous mixture of six antibiotic compounds, Gramicidins A, B and C, making up 80%, 6%, and 14% respectively, all of which are obtained from the soil bacterial species Bacillus brevis and called collectively Gramicidin D. Gramicidin D are linear pentadecapeptides; that is chains made up of 15 amino acids.
SDMA has not been associated with cardiovascular disease but correlates with both measured and estimated glomerular filtration rate and is a marker of renal function.
Extreme exposure can lead to convulsions, unconsciousness and respiratory failure.
The encoded protein, which has intrinsic GTPase activity, is activated by a guanine nucleotide-exchange factor and inactivated by a GTPase activating protein.
True shrimp are small, swimming, decapod crustaceans classified in the infraorder Caridea, found widely around the world in both fresh and salt water.
It is a follow-up test designed to evaluate pregnancies with a low maternal serum unconjugated estriol (uE3) level detected during prenatal screening for Down syndrome and neural tube defects.
The pre-catheterization diagnosis may be based on a combination of patient symptoms, physical exam findings, and results of previous procedures such lab tests and EKG.
Growth phases refer to the persistent stages of tumor development.
The NCF1 gene (neutrophil cytosolic factor 1) is located on chromosome 7q11.23.
This gene encodes the beta subunit of a cyclic nucleotide-gated ion channel.
Human infections are caused most frequently by B. melitensis, B. suis, and B. abortus, while B. canis causes only rare infections.
Oysters in warm seas may take 18 months to reach market size, while in cooler seas, up to 5 years.
Curvularia defined by the type species C. lunata (Wakker) Boedijn.
The large lobed leaves are slightly spiny and the plant has a thick, semiwoody stem with few branches.
The IVD gene (isovaleryl-CoA dehydrogenase) is located on chromosome 15q14-q15.
CD1 glycoproteins can be classified primarily into two groups which differ in their lipid anchoring.
Pipemidic acid is a member of the pyridopyrimidine class of antibacterials, which display some overlap in mechanism of action with analogous pyridone-containing quinolones.
The serum-pleural effusion glucose gradient is measured as part a differential diagnosis of exudates and transudates and to diagnosis a pleuroperitoneal leak.
It is available in many countries under the brand names Phenergan, Promethegan, Romergan, Fargan, Farganesse, Prothiazine, Avomine, Atosil, Receptozine, Lergigan, and (in the UK) Sominex.
Chemically, it is similar to nicotine and its principal (historical) industrial use is as an insecticide.
It is commonly marketed under the trade name Spectracef by Cornerstone BioPharma.
It is synthesized from aspartic acid and ammonia by asparagine synthetase.
Sirolimus is variably absorbed; levels need to monitored to achieve the therapeutic target while avoiding toxic levels.
Results are expressed as a normal oxidative index (NOI), which is the ratio of the fluorescence in stimulated cells to the fluorescence expressed in unstimulated cells.
The risk of transmitting the disease is greatest when an infected horse is ill, as the blood levels of the virus are then highest.
Determines whether the antibiotic Streptomycin will be synergistic with certain other antibiotics.
Side effects to amisulpride include a low incidence of cardiac toxicity, hypotension, sedation, anticholinergic symptoms, weight gain and extrapyramidal side effects.
Transcript variants for the CYP2B6 gene have been described, including 415A>G (*8), 516G>T (*9), 983T>C (*16), and 1459C>T(*5), and are associated with altered drug metabolism.
They found that the CD99 antigen also showed variable expression which appeared to be related to sex.
BRCA2 is considered a tumor suppressor gene, as tumors with BRCA2 mutations generally exhibit loss of heterozygosity (LOH) of the wild-type allele.
For example, patients with three or more positive autoantibodies were more likely to have features of systemic sclerosis and less likely to have renal disease compared to patients with fewer types of antibodies.
Trazodone has considerably fewer prominent anticholinergic (dry mouth, constipation, tachycardia) and sexual side effects than most of the tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs).
RUNX1 is a transcription factor that regulates critical processes in many aspects of hematopoiesis and is essential in defining the final hematopoietic stem cell.
State entropy uses the irregularity of the EEG signal in the 0.8 to 32 Hz frequency band to measure cerebral cortex activity, and response entropy uses the FEMG signal in the 0.8 to 47 Hz frequency band to measure cerebral cortex and facial muscle activity, respectively.
An adult hemoglobin component normally present in hemolysates from human erythrocytes in concentrations of about 3%.
Studies have suggested that it is an allergen implicated in asthma.
Case reports of anaphylactic reactions, including death, have been reported.
Adenosine monophosphate deaminase 1 catalyzes the deamination of AMP to IMP in skeletal muscle and plays an important role in the purine nucleotide cycle.
The IL-2 receptor (IL-2R) has three subunits, and different combinations of these subunits have varying affinity for IL-2.
In persons with PKU, dietary phenylalanine either accumulates in the body or some of it is converted to phenylpyruvic acid and then to phenyllactate through the action of lactate dehydrogenase.
In addition, the genetic counselor who reviews the results may add specific interpretation details or follow-up recommendations to the report.
A 1995 study conducted in Florida swampland found that 15% of swamp-dwelling jays tested positive for HJ antibodies, all of which were asymptomatic and in apparent good health.
The SMPD1 gene (sphingomyelin phosphodiesterase 1, acid lysosomal) is located on chromosome 11p15.4-p15.1.
The nephrostomy tube drains urine from the kidney into an external drainage pouch.
Coagulation factor inhibitors can develop in patients with coagulation factor deficiencies after receiving factor therapy as well as in response to various antibiotics, chemotherapy and other conditions such as autoimmune disorders.
Severity of infections due to L. pneumophila range from mild (walking pneumonia) to fatal (multilobar pneumonia).
Leuprolide may be used in the treatment of hormone-responsive cancers such as prostate cancer or breast cancer, estrogen-dependent conditions (such as endometriosis or uterine fibroids), to treat precocious puberty, and to control ovarian stimulation in In Vitro Fertilization (IVF).
The adrenal glands respond to tyramine by sending catecholamine into the bloodstream, along with dopamine, norepinephrine, and epinephrine, providing a boost of energy and, in turn, elevation of blood pressure and heart rate.
The opening height is the vertical distance between the upper and lower lid margins in the ocular midline with the eyelids open.
CVA7 is most closely related to CVA14, CVA16, and Enterovirus 71 (EV71), and is associated with hand, foot and mouth disease (HFMD).
To make a complete immunoglobulin light-chain messenger RNA, the V-region exon is joined to the C-region sequence by RNA splicing after transcription
The most common bacteria that make the NDM enzyme are Gram-negative such as Escherichia coli and Klebsiella pneumoniae, but the gene for NDM can spread from one strain of bacteria to another by horizontal gene transfer.
The protein encoded by this gene is a transcription factor required for the expression of several liver-specific genes.
Pyruvate Kinase deficiency, although rare, is the erythrocyte enzyme deficiency most frequently found to be a cause of congenital nonspherocytic hemolytic anemia.
It mostly grows at altitudes of 1,200-2,700 m (down to sea level in the Puget Sound area) on dry soils, often together with other juniper species.
Zirconium binds urea, a property that has been utilized extensively for renal dialysis patients, as a primary component of the sorbent column dependent dialysate regeneration and recirculation system.
The inactive angiotensin I is enzymatically converted to the active octapeptide angiotensin II, which is a potent vasopressor responsible for hypertension of renal orgin.
The colon from cecum to the mid transverse colon is also known as the right colon.
Ubiquitin carboxyl-terminal hydrolase-L1 (UCH-L1) is a protein that is involved in the metabolism of ubiquitin within neurons.
The MDCR gene (tyrosine 3-monooxygenase/tryptophan 5-monooxygenase activation protein, epsilon) gene is located on chromosome 17p13.3.
The incidence of AKI is especially high in critically ill patients who often have comorbidities.
Clinical pictures typical for immediate reactions to β-lactams are urticaria, with or without angioedema, and anaphylaxis.
Sarin is not found naturally in the environment, and is a human-made chemical warfare agent classified as a nerve agent.
Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding additional distinct troponin T type 3 isoforms.
Exposure to Mugwort pollen contributes to the causation or exacerbation of the Oral Allergy Syndrome, eczema, urticaria; and anaphylaxis where pollen has contaminated a food, e.g., honey.
Glycopeptide resistance is one mechanism by which Staphylococcus aureus may be resistant to antimicrobial treatment.
sec-Butyl acetate, or s-butyl acetate, is a solvent commonly used as a solvent in lacquers and enamels, where it is used in the production of acyclic polymers, vinyl resins, and nitrocellulose.
Neuroblastoma patients with a Homovanillic acid (HVA) to VMA ratio of less than 1 or greater than 2 have an unfavorable prognosis.
A grass species producing pollen, which may induce hayfever, asthma and conjunctivitis in sensitised individuals.
Numerous foods provide vitamin E. Nuts, seeds, and vegetable oils are among the best sources of alpha-tocopherol, and significant amounts are available in green leafy vegetables and fortified cereals.
In histology, it is very difficult to distinguish it from the other "-blast" cells (lymphoblast, myeloblast, monoblast, and megakaryoblast).
Of the 100 different species included in the genus Pinus, almost all are found in the Northern Hemisphere, with 36 in North America.
Although pyridoxine and vitamin B 6 are still frequently used as synonyms, especially by medical researchers, this practice is erroneous and sometimes misleading (EE Snell; Ann NY Acad Sci, vol 585 pg 1, 1990).
It is used to treat infections with gram-positive organisms and as a growth promoter in cattle, swine, and poultry.
A genus of the family Chinchillidae which consists of three species: C. brevicaudata, C. lanigera, and C. villidera.
Meningitis can occur by bloodstream invasion from the lungs or by extension of otitis media or sinusitis to the meninges.
The ALPL gene (alkaline phosphatase, liver/bone/kidney) is located on chromosome 1p36.12.
For example, patients with deletions at 17p13 are resistant to standard therapies, such as fludarabine, but will likely benefit from more aggressive therapies, such as bone marrow transplantation.
Bahia grass is a significant aeroallergen, which can induce asthma, allergic rhinitis and allergic conjunctivitis.
This is catalysed by the enzyme succinate dehydrogenase (or complex II of the mitochondrial ETC).
The encoded protein, which is a member of the family of cytokine receptors, may also function in some cell surface adhesion or recognition processes.
Strychnine causes muscular convulsions and eventually asphyxia or sheer exhaustion.
Lecithin-cholesterol acyltransferase (LCAT, also called phosphatidylcholine-sterol O-acyltransferase) is an enzyme that converts free cholesterol into cholesteryl ester (a more hydrophobic form of cholesterol), which is then sequestered into the core of a lipoprotein particle, eventually making the newly synthesized HDL spherical and forcing the reaction to become unidirectional since the particles are removed from the surface.
The ratio of the number of signals of the MET gene, also on chromosome 7, to the chromosome 7 signal can indicate whether or not there is amplification of the MET gene.
It is a member of the ErbB protein family, more commonly known as the epidermal growth factor receptor family.
The HR2 allele may result in lower FV levels, and patients who are compound heterozygous carriers of both HR2 and FV Leiden have increased resistance to activated protein C (APC) and a pro-thrombotic phenotype.
Hemoglobin H Inclusions are greenish-blue inclusion bodies that appear in many erythrocytes after four drops of blood is incubated with 0.5mL of Brilliant cresyl blue for 20 minutes at 37°C.
Many strains of C. diphtheriae produce an exotoxin (molecular weight of 62 KD).
It is also rised very high in eclampsia and rises but not severely in last trimester of pregnancy.
nSal k 1 can thus be used as a marker of saltwort sensitization for specific immunotherapy (SIT).
Inositol supplements have been tested as a pharmacological intervention for a variety of conditions including bulimia, depression, panic disorder and obsessive compulsive disorder (OCD).
The cause of most cases is unknown, although statin medications, connective-tissue disease, and malignancy may increase risk.
Pibrentasvir is a hepatitis C virus (HCV) NS5A protein inhibitor.
It is well absorbed from the gastrointestinal tract resulting in a greater bioavailability of ampicillin than can be achieved with equivalent doses of ampicillin.
It is the largest arthropod in the world in terms of leg span, reaching up to 3.8 metres (12 ft 6 in) and weighing up to 41 pounds (19 kg).
Examples of amphetamines are amphetamine, methamphetamine, ephedrine, cathinone, MDMA ("Ecstasy"), and DOM ("STP").
This protein can interact with a variety of POZ-containing proteins that function as transcription corepressors.
The pyruvate dehydrogenase complex contributes to transforming pyruvate into acetyl-CoA by a process called pyruvate decarboxylation.
In turn, epoxy and alkyd resins are used as constituents of paints, varnishes, surface coatings, adhesives, encapsulated materials and sealants).
Repeat testing several weeks after the original test, including comparison of antibody titers between the two time periods, is recommended.
Elevated levels of uric acid, or hyperuricemia, may be due to genetic inheritance or diet.
It is converted into its active form by ENTEROPEPTIDASE in the small intestine.
Zomepirac is an orally effective NSAID that has antipyretic actions.
It has activity against gram-positive organisms as well as anaerobes.
Risperidone (Belivon®, Rispen®, Risperdal®) is an atypical antipsychotic medication mostly used to treat delusional psychosis (e.g. schizophrenia).
More than 170 million people worldwide are affected by hepatitis C, and the majority of patients with acute hepatitis C develop chronic HCV infection, which can result in liver cirrhosis, hepatic failure or hepatocellular carcinoma.
The "Anaphylaxis Action Plan" is a communication tool medical providers use to inform school staff of a patient's allergy condition and instruct how to respond if the child has an anaphylaxis event while at school.
Amiloride is used in conjunction with DIURETICS to spare POTASSIUM loss.
It improves immunologic function, partially reverses the HIV-induced neurological dysfunction, and improves certain other clinical abnormalities associated with AIDS.
Elevated levels also have been observed in pregnant women, most often during the first trimester.
Oat (Avena sativa) is a species of seeds from a cereal grain plant.
Such non-H7 strains have been isolated from asymptomatic patients, patients with diarrhea, as well as food and environmental sources.
Pepsin is an enzyme whose precursor form (pepsinogen) is released by the chief cells in the stomach and that degrades food proteins into peptides.
The disease has a nearly 100% infection rate in an unvaccinated horse population with no prior exposure to the virus.
They have an estimated 75% protein to rRNA composition compared to prokaryotic ribosomes, where this ratio is reversed.
Curvularia lunata appears as shiny velvety-black, fluffy growth on the colony surface.
Anisakis is a parasitic nematode whose larvae occupy several types of fish and cephalopods such as cod, sardine, tuna, mackerel and squid as intermediate hosts.
Ribosomes, the organelles that catalyze protein synthesis, consist of a small 40S subunit and a large 60S subunit.
Prenatal diagnosis of SSADH deficiency may be performed by enzyme analysis in amniotic fluid and cells.
It is a white crystalline solid that is soluble in water and most common organic solvents.
Finding compatible units for transfusion to a patient that lacks the AnWj antigens or other high incidence antigens can be challenging.
Mutations in this gene have been associated with optic atrophy type 1, which is a dominantly inherited optic neuropathy resulting in progressive loss of visual acuity, leading in many cases to legal blindness.
This gene product is a nuclear-encoded mitochondrial protein with similarity to dynamin-related GTPases.
Different methods used to calculate a patient's liver fibrosis score include the Enhanced Liver Fibrosis (ELF) test, nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) fibrosis score, HepaScore, FibroMeter, and FibroSURE.
Myocytes cannot synthesize creatine and therefore rely on the creatine transporter.
Amino groups of amino acids are attached to it by transamination and carried to the liver where the urea cycle takes place.
Viruses related to MDV cause tumors and disease in turkey and other avian species.
This gene encodes the plasma membrane calcium ATPase isoform 3.
Eels are disting-uished by several characteristics: color, dorsal fin length, size, head shape, habitat and distribution.
The allergic reaction is delayed-onset, occurring several hours after the consumption of mammalian meat products, instead of the typical rapid onset with most food allergies.
The primary screening test for N-glycosylation disorders is serum carbohydrate deficient transferrin analysis, and for O-glycosylation disorders is apolipoprotein CIII analysis.
This assay determines viral phenotype and genotype resistance to four classes of commonly prescribed antiretroviral drugs: nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors (NRTI), nonnucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors (NNRTI), protease inhibitors (PI) and integrase inhibitors (INI).
Very low values are sometimes encountered in chronic fatigue syndrome.(Information from: Kumps A, Duez P, Mardens Y. Metabolic, Nutritional, Iatrogenic, and Artifactual Sources of Urinary Organic Acids: A Comprehensive Table.
Lindane enters plants when it is directly applied to them, from contaminated water, and from vapors of lindane.
It is a candidate tumor suppressor gene, and has been proposed to function as a possible mediator of TGF beta induced G1 arrest.
Patients with Rubinstein-Taybi are at increased risk of developing noncancerous and cancerous tumors, including certaintypes of brain tumors and leukemia.
The production of lactic acid makes its environment acidic, which inhibits the growth of some harmful bacteria.
Complex III is a multisubunit transmembrane protein encoded by both the mitochondrial (cytochrome b) and the nuclear genomes (all other subunits).
In cases of suspected EG poisoning, EG screening should be accompanied by a confirmatory method or simultaneous measurement of GA.The preferred methods for confirming EG and GA are chromatographic.
It is the only two-carbon alkane that is an aliphatic hydrocarbon.
Gliadins are a group of protein in gluten (an elastic protein found in wheat flour) that can elicit an abnormal immune response resulting in the intestinal disorder celiac disease.
Phytosterols naturally occur in small amount in vegetable oils, especially soybean oil.
(Dorland, 28th ed) Turpentine is used as a solvent and an experimental irritant in biomedical research.
The 3' untranslated region of this gene contains 5-37 copies of a CTG trinucleotide repeat.
3-Methoxytyramine (3-MT), also known as 3-methoxy-4-hydroxyphenethylamine, is a metabolite of the neurotransmitter dopamine formed by the introduction of a methyl group to dopamine by the enzyme catechol-O-methyl transferase (COMT).
The mitotic index can be worked out from a slide, even with light microscopy.
It has also been isolated from wombat and kangaroo feces, being a cause of bushwalkers' diarrhea.
Absence or deficiency of this enzyme causes the metabolic disease CITRULLINEMIA in humans. .
Abnormal lipoprotein found in serum of patients with obstructive jaundice.
Two forms of this enzyme exist as likely products of a gene duplication event.
It is one of the widely used ANTITUSSIVES, and is also used to study the involvement of glutamate receptors in neurotoxicity.
A genus of trematodes, Schistosoma, (also called blood-flukes or parasitic flatworms) is responsible for a very significant group of infections in humans termed schistosomiasis.
The powder is used for drinks and confections, and also to make medicines more palatable.
This protein and the closely related kinase ATR are thought to be master controllers of cell cycle checkpoint signaling pathways that are required for cell response to DNA damage and for genome stability.
Amisulpride is a derivative of substituted benzamide and a second generation antipsychotic drug used to treat chronic schizophrenia.
Increase of bone isoenzyme is associated with malignancies, such as breast cancer with bone or liver metastasis and osteosarcoma and lymphoma with or without metastasis.
A biobank is a repository that stores biological samples used for research.
Progesterone is bound mostly to Cortisol Binding Globulin and albumin, with a small percentage in the bioactive free form.
Streptococcus agalactiae (group B Streptococcus) is one of the primary causes of sepsis and neonatal meningitis and has also been associated with infections in immunosuppressed patients.
The encoded protein is involved in the active cellular uptake of carnitine.
Phenylpropanolamine (PPA; Accutrim), also known as the stereoisomers norephedrine and norpseudoephedrine, is a psychoactive drug of the phenethylamine and amphetamine chemical classes which is used as a stimulant, decongestant, and anorectic agent.
Insulin-like growth factor 1 (IGF-1) is a polypeptide protein hormone similar in molecular structure to insulin.
Ber e 1 is a 2S albumin, a common major storage protein found in a number of edible seeds and nuts and recognised as a panallergen.
After World War II, DDT was heavily used as an insecticide in agricultural and household settings.
The PLP1 gene (proteolipid protein 1) is located on chromosome Xq22.
Defects in this gene are the cause of autosomal recessive early-onset Parkinson disease 7.
DPD levels are not affected by diet or physical exercise.
Common pigweed pollen commonly induces asthma, allergic rhinitis and allergic conjunctivitis.
Their effects, however, are widespread and their therapeutic range is narrow and so they are not the drug of choice in asthma treatment.
In certain cases the measurement of these metabolites in body fluids can be used to diagnose disorders associated with mitochondrial fatty acid beta-oxidation.
Midazolam binds to the benzodiazepine receptor at the gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) - chloride ionophore complex found in the central nervous system.
Mutations in this gene have been associated with Holt-Oram syndrome, a developmental disorder affecting the heart and upper limbs.
Dodecanoylcarnitine is a primary marker for Very long-chain acyl-CoA dehydrogenase deficiency.
It was originally known as serum hepatitis and has caused recent epidemics in parts of Asia and Africa.
When swallowed they cause infections by excysting (to the trophozoite stage) in the digestive tract.
The Risk Evaluation and Mitigation Strategies (REMS) information is included in pharmacy systems using Structured Product Labeling (SPL).
A turkey is either one of two species of large birds in the genus Meleagris.
The production of adrenal androstenedione is governed by ACTH, while production of gonadal androstenedione is controled by gonadotropins.
Senecavirus A (SVA), formerly Seneca Valley virus (SVV) is a small, non-enveloped picornavirus.
The interleukin-2 receptor (IL-2R) is a heterotrimeric protein expressed on the surface of certain immune cells, such as lymphocytes, that binds and responds to a cytokine called interleukin 2.
The chief functional difference between standard (unfractionated) heparin and LMWH is that standard heparin has equivalent inhibitory activity against both factor Xa and thrombin (by binding to and potentiating antithrombin), while LMWH, on account of its shorter polysaccharide chains, preferentially inactivates factor Xa.
uPAR was originally identified as a saturable binding site for urokinase on the cell surface.
Rhinitis and asthma have been described in wood workers exposed to Acacia wood
Other symptoms include sneezing, swelling of the throat, and hives.
Dextroamphetamine has multiple mechanisms of action including blocking uptake of adrenergics and dopamine, stimulating release of monamines, and inhibiting monoamine oxidase.
The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the protein tyrosine phosphatase (PTP) family.
Cystine is a hydrophilic amino acid with uncharged polar groups.
High numbers of epithelial cells are not indicative of inflammation and might indicate contamination with saliva.
Phytic acid (known as inositol hexakisphosphate (IP6), or phytate when in salt form) is the principal storage form of phosphorus in many plant tissues, especially bran and seeds.
MPM is one of the platelet indices useful for the differential diagnosis of thrombocytosis.
The encoded enzyme is soluble and found in the intermembrane space of mitochondria.
The first, grey rot, is the result of consistently wet or humid conditions, and typically results in the loss of the affected bunches.
Zolpidem phenyl-4-carboxylate is the major metabolite of Zolpidem found in urine.
In multiple sclerosis, the immune system attacks the myelin sheath in the CNS, damaging it and the oligodendrocytes that produce it.
Staph that have intermediate and heterogeneous resistance to glycopeptides are called GISA and hGISA, respectively.
They are relatively stable against the development of resistance but both intrinsic and acquired mechanisms of resistance have been described.
The fermented, dried and roasted seeds are ground to make chocolate powder.
The enzyme DPP-4 also part of the CD26 surface region is associated with immune regulation, signal transduction and apoptosis.
Primary hyperaldosteronism, also referred to as Conn syndrome, is due to overproduction of aldosterone by one or both of the adrenal glands.
The synergy appears to be based on ribosomal conformational changes triggered by the binding of the streptogramin A (Dalfopristin), which can cause irreversible attachment of the streptogramin B (Quinupristin) to the ribosome.
A hallucinogen formerly used as a veterinary anesthetic, and briefly as a general anesthetic for humans.
The loss of water molecule from creatine results in the formation of creatinine.
C3 (Propionylcarnitine)+C16 (Palmitoylcarnitine) is a marker for carnitine uptake defect, which is one of the core conditions on the HHS Secretary's Recommended Uniform Screening Panel for newborn screening.
Tigecycline has also been shown to have anti-enterococcal activity as has rifampicin.
Testing for IgE antibodies may be used to help diagnose an allergic disease or the cause of an anaphylactic episode in a patient.
Subsequently, attempts to detect the expression of the authentic KRT19 may result in the detection of either or both of these pseudogenes), sample contamination (introduction of contaminating epithelial cells during peripheral blood sampling for subsequent RT-PCR analysis).
Timothy is native to Europe, North Africa and Northern Asia, and has been introduced and widely cultivated as a hay and pasture grass in North and South America, South Africa and Australia.
Protein isoform sizes vary from 600 to 800 kD due to alternative splicing that is tissue-, species-,and developmental stage-specific.
This gene encodes a protein, also known as pyrin or marenostrin, that is an important modulator of innate immunity.
PCR-based methods targeting nucleic acid sequences specific to one of the six segments are used to detect and identify hPIVs serotypes.
Ribosomes are composed of ribosomal RNA and ribosomal proteins (known as a Ribonucleoprotein or RNP).
The protein encoded by this gene represents the catalytic subunit, which uses ATP to phosphorylate PtdIns, PtdIns4P and PtdIns(4,5)P2.
Also, as the 1,5-bisphosphate, D-ribulose combines with carbon dioxide at the start of the photosynthetic process in green plants (carbon dioxide trap).
EC is a gram-negative, flagellated, rod-shaped bacterium that is composed of a stable core set of genes, and another more fluid set of genes that includes the virulence genes.
Deoxycorticosterone is a steroid hormone produced by the adrenal gland that possess mineralocorticoid activity and acts as a precursor to aldosterone.
Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.
The number of cycles that have been preset or scheduled, for example, on a nebulizer machine.
In addition, red cell survival has not been affected by Bg antibodies when patients receive HLA incompatible components.(AABB Technical Manual, 18th edition, pp 362, 480, 490)
It demonstrates antibacterial activity against a broad spectrum of bacteria, including Pseudomonas aeruginosa and, in contrast to most cephalosporins, exhibits activity against enterococci.
This compound is a colorless, volatile liquid with a strong peppermint odor.
It is also known as 1-propanol, 1-propyl alcohol, n-propyl alcohol, n-propanol, or simply propanol.
The Robinsoni serovar has been associated with pulmonary hemorrhage, and late diagnosis and treatment can lead to severe medical complications.
CYP3A4 *22 is typically associated with increased response to statins (lovastatin, simvastatin, and atorvastatin), with lower doses required to gain optimal response.
The encoded protein contains a highly unstable region of five tandem octapeptide repeats.
A description of the goals for risk evaluation and mitigation strategies (REMS) information, to standardize REMS information for inclusion into pharmacy systems using structured product labeling (SPL).
There are different methods used and variations in procedure when estimating bone ash.
Although synthetic cannabis does not produce positive results in drug tests for cannabis, it is possible to detect its metabolites in human urine.
Glutamic acid is a dicarboxylic amino acid with acidic R groups.
Plasma cells are fully differentiated B lymphocytes that produce and secrete a specific antibody.
Primidone is an anticonvulsant of the pyrimidinedione class, the active metabolites of which, phenobarbital (major) and phenylethylmalonamide (PEMA) (minor), are also anticonvulsants.
HSV-1 is commonly associated with herpes outbreaks of the face known as cold sores or fever blisters, whereas HSV-2 is more often associated with genital herpes.
2) The so-called 2nd generation TSH has a detection limit of <= .05 mIU/L and is now the routine TSH test in most settings.
The 4 most frequent crystal subcategory: Calcium oxalate monohydrate, calcium oxalate dihydrate, triple phosphate, uric acid.
It is one of the most common viruses in humans.
It may also infect wild ruminants and other domestic animals.
The species native range includes southern Europe, North Africa, and Asia from Anatolia and Iran in the west to northeast of China.
They are a major part of the lactic acid bacteria group, named as such because most of its members convert lactose and other sugars to lactic acid.
Increased levels of eicosenoic acid (20:ln9) and erucic acid (22:1n9) have been found in the red blood cell membranes of autistic subjects with developmental regression.
They produce hormone-like substances, including cytokines and chemokines, in the presence of viral infections and tumor cells.
Gas gangrene also occurs in domestic animals including sheep, cattle, goats, and horses.
